Her mind wanders for a beat.
Jane looks at us and sits up.
We're FLYING above suburban America, DESCENDING SLOWLY toward a tree-lined street.
We're looking down at a king-sized BED from OVERHEAD: LESTER BURNHAM lies sleeping amidst expensive bed linens, face down, wearing PAJAMAS.
An irritating ALARM CLOCK RINGS.
Lester gropes blindly to shut it off.
He rolls over, looks up at us and sighs.
He sits up and puts on his slippers.
Lester thrusts his face directly into a steaming hot shower.
ANGLE from outside the shower: Lester's naked body is silhouetted through the fogged-up glass door.
It becomes apparent he is masturbating.
CLOSE on a single, dewy AMERICAN BEAUTY ROSE.
A gloved hand with CLIPPERS appears and SNIPS the flower off.
CAROLYN BURNHAM tends her rose bushes in front of the Burnham house.
A very well-put together woman of forty, she wears color-coordinated gardening togs and has lots of useful and expensive tools.
Lester watches her through a WINDOW on the first floor, peeping out through the drapes.
In the fenced front yard of the house next door, a dog BARKS repeatedly.
A MAN in a conservative suit (JIM #1) chastises the barking dog.
A second MAN in a conservative suit (JIM #2) comes out of the house.
Lester watches all this from the window.
Jim #1 walks toward the fence to greet Carolyn.
Jim #1 and Carolyn continue to chat, unaware that Lester is watching them.
JANE is seated at her desk, working at her computer.
Outside, a CAR HORN BLARES.
Jane stuffs items into her .
Jane studies herself in a mirror, then shifts to get a good profile of her breasts.
Jane shuffles out of the house, her backpack slung over her shoulder.
Lester hurries out the front door, carrying a BRIEFCASE.
Jane gets in the car.
Lester's briefcase suddenly springs open and his papers spill all over the driveway.
He drops to his knees to gather everything.
Carolyn looks down at us, contemptuous but also bored, as if she gave up expecting anything more long ago.
Lester smiles sheepishly, trying to lighten the moment.
Carolyn is driving; Jane stares out the window.
Lester is asleep in the back seat.
He's staring at a computer monitor and talking on a HEADSET PHONE.
The beleaguered expression on his face is at odds with the light, friendly tone of his voice.
Lester sits at his workstation, a BEIGE CUBICLE surrounded by IDENTICAL BEIGE CUBICLES.
BRAD, a dapper man in his thirties, approaches and observes Lester, who is unaware of his presence.
Lester disconnects the call, obviously irritated.
Lester turns around, smiling perfunctorily.
Brad is seated behind his desk in his big corner office.
Lester sits across from him, looking small and isolated.
Brad stands, ready to usher Lester out.
Lester stares at him, powerless.
A MOVING VAN is parked in front of the COLONIAL HOUSE next door to the Burnhams'.
The Mercedes-Benz pulls into the Burnham driveway.
Carolyn drives, Lester is in the passenger seat.
As they get out of the car, Carolyn scopes out the MOVERS next door.
Movers carry furniture toward the house.
She heads into the house, followed by Lester.
Lester, Carolyn and Jane are eating dinner by CANDLELIGHT.
RED ROSES are bunched in a vase at the center of the table.
Lester suddenly turns to Jane.
Now she looks at him as if he's lost his mind.
Carolyn is watching this closely.
She gets up and heads toward the kitchen.
She's gone.
Lester notices Carolyn looking at him critically.
Lester is quiet, staring at his plate.
Lester gets up and starts after Jane, taking his plate with him.
Jane stands at the sink, rinsing off her plate.
Lester enters.
Jane turns and stares at him, waiting for him to finish.
He's looking to her for a little help here, but she's too uncomfortable with this sudden intimacy to give him any.
We're looking through GREENHOUSE WINDOWS at Lester and Jane in the kitchen We can't hear what they're saying, but it's obvious it's not going well.
Jane puts her plate in the dishwasher and leaves.
We FOLLOW HER out the door, then the camera JERKS back to Lester calling after her.
His POV, on VIDEO: Through the kitchen window, we see Lester at the sink, rinsing off his plate, muttering to himself.
CLOSE on the face of RICKY FITTS, illuminated by the screen of his DIGICAM as he videotapes.
Ricky is eighteen, but his eyes are much older.
Beneath his Zen-like tranquillity lurks something wounded.
Lester turns off the faucet,
We're looking out through the kitchen window at the point where Ricky was just standing, but he's no longer there.
His head suddenly jerks up and he looks at us, as if he realizes he's being watched.
dries his hands,
then tosses the towel on the counter on his way out,
where it lands next to a framed PHOTOGRAPH of Lester, Carolyn, and a much-younger Jane, taken several years earlier at an amusement park.
Throughout all this, she keeps repeating to herself.
She neatly arranges her sales materials on a desk, then strips down to her undergarments.
We see Carolyn, working with fierce concentration as she: Cleans glass doors that overlook the patio and pool; Doggedly scrubs countertops in the kitchen; Perches on a stepladder to dust a cheap-looking ceiling fan in the master bedroom; And vacuums a dirty carpet that will never be clean.
Carolyn stands in front of the mirror, wearing her suit once more, applying lipstick.
She stares at her reflection critically.
She says this as if it were a threat, then notices a smudge on the mirror and wipes it off.
The front door opens to reveal Carolyn, greeting us with the smile she thinks could sell ice to an Eskimo.
Smiling, Carolyn leads a man and woman into the living room.
They're thirtyish, and they've seen a lot of houses today.
The man and woman glance around the dark room, unimpressed.
The woman wrinkles her face, skeptical.
Carolyn enters, followed by a different couple in their fifties.
Carolyn stands with a different couple: African American, late twenties.
The woman is pregnant.
Carolyn stands by the pool next to two fortyish WOMEN.
She locks the sliding glass door and starts to pull the vertical blinds shut, then stops.
Standing very still, with the blinds casting shadows across her face, she starts to cry: brief, staccato SOBS that seemingly escape against her will.
Suddenly she SLAPS herself, hard.
But the tears continue.
She SLAPS herself again.
She SLAPS herself repeatedly until she stops crying.
She stands there, taking deep breaths until she has everything under control, then pulls the blinds shut, once again all business.
She walks out calmly, leaving us alone in the dark, empty room.
We're at a high-school BASKETBALL GAME.
Teenage boys play a fast and furious game.
One team wearing pale blue and white uniforms scores a basket.
Perky cheerleaders jump up and down as the CROWD goes wild.
Seated in the bleachers, next to the high school BAND, is a group of about twenty TEENAGE GIRLS, dressed in pale blue and white uniforms.
Among them, Jane sits next to ANGELA HAYES.
At sixteen, Angela is strikingly beautiful; with perfect even features, blonde hair and a nubile young body, she's the archetypal American dream girl.
Carolyn drives.
Lester is slumped in the passenger seat.
Carolyn stares at him, unsure of how to respond.
The uniformed girls now stand in formation on the gym floor.
In the crowded stands, Lester and Carolyn find seats.
They're well-rehearsed, but too young to carry off the ambitious Vegas routine they're attempting.
Lester, watching from the stands, picks out his daughter.
Jane performs well, concentrating.
Dancing awkwardly next to her is Angela.
Suddenly Angela looks right at us and smiles.
a lazy, insolent smile.
We're focused on Angela now.
Everything starts to .
the MUSIC acquires an eerie ECHO.
We ZOOM slowly toward Lester as he watches, transfixed.
The light on Angela grows stronger, and the other girls DISAPPEAR entirely.
Lester is suddenly alone in the stands, spellbound.
Angela looks directly at us now, dancing only for Lester.
Her movements take on a blatantly erotic edge as she starts to unzip her uniform, teasing us with an expression that's both innocent and knowing, then.
She pulls her uniform OPEN and a profusion of RED ROSE PETALS spill forth.
Angela, fully clothed, is once again surrounded by the other girls.
The HIGH SCHOOL BAND plays its last note, the Dancing Spartanettes strike their final pose, and the audience .
Carolyn claps along with the rest of the audience.
Lester just sits there, unable to take his eyes off Angela.
The game is long over.
Jane and Angela come out of the gym.
Lester and Carolyn stand at the edge of the parking lot.
She crosses reluctantly toward her parents, followed by Angela.
An awkward beat.
She starts toward the parking lot.
Lester stays behind.
Angela smiles, aware of the power she has over him.
He is mesmerized; grateful, even.
CLOSE on a solitary red ROSE PETAL as it falls slowly through the air.
We're looking down on Lester and Carolyn in bed.
Even in sleep, Carolyn looks determined.
Lester is awake and stares up at us.
The ROSE PETAL drifts into view, landing on his pillow.
More ROSE PETALS fall onto the bed, and he smiles up at.
Angela, naked, FLOATS above us as a deluge of ROSE PETALS falls around her.
Her hair fans out around her head and GLOWS with a subtle, burnished light.
She looks down at us with a smile that is all things.
Lester smiles back and LAUGHS, as ROSE PETALS cover his face.
Jane stares at the floor.
Jane gets out of the car, still LAUGHING, and waves as Angela pulls away.
We ZOOM toward Jane as she walks up the driveway.
She turns suddenly, sensing our presence.
We're looking at the COLONIAL HOUSE next door where the moving van was parked earlier.
The front porch is shrouded in darkness.
then a PORCH LIGHT abruptly reveals Ricky.
As usual, he's dressed conservatively.
Irritated, Jane stares at him, hard.
He looks back at her curiously, then raises his Digicam and starts to videotape her.
His POV, on VIDEO: Jane, angry and self-conscious, turns and walks quickly toward her house, flipping us off as she goes.
Jane enters, closes and locks the door.
She quickly TURNS OFF THE LIGHT that's been left on for her, then peeks through a window.
and smiles.
Jane turns back into the room, her heart racing.
Lester, dressed for work, goes through Jane's address book.
He grabs Jane's phone and dials, then stands with the receiver to his ear, nervous.
Lester is frozen, unable to speak.
Lester hangs up and exits quickly.
Jane emerges from the bathroom, a towel wrapped around her torso, drying her wet hair.
She picks up the PHONE.
Angela is sprawled across her bed, on the phone.
Then Jane notices her address book open to the H page.
Jane picks up the address book, frowning.
We're across from Jane's WINDOW, looking in.
She speaks into the phone, but we can't hear her.
BARBARA FITTS stands at the stove, flipping bacon strips mechanically, her eyes focused elsewhere.
At least ten years younger than her husband, she's pretty in a June Cleaver-ish way.
Ricky enters.
Startled, Barbara turns to him.
As she attempts to serve him bacon.
Ricky serves himself scrambled eggs from another pan, then joins his father at the table.
The Colonel sits at a dinette reading The Wall Street Journal.
The Colonel and Barbara look at each other, alarmed.
The Colonel heads toward the living room, a little puffed up.
The Colonel opens the front door to reveal the two JIMS. 
Jim #1 holds out a basket filled with flowers, vegetables and a small white cardboard box tied with raffia.
The Colonel stares at them, suspicious.
The Jims look at each other, then back at the Colonel.
The Colonel looks at them, confused.
Then it dawns on him.
The Colonel drives, staring darkly at the road ahead.
In the passenger seat, Ricky is using a CALCULATOR and jotting numbers down in a NOTEBOOK.
The Colonel looks at Ricky sharply.
The Colonel's eyes flash angrily.
A beat, as Ricky continues his calculations, before he realizes a response is expected from him.
Ricky sighs, then looks at his father.
The Colonel is taken aback but quickly covers.
Case closed, Ricky goes back to his calculations.
CLOSE on the pencil in his hands: He's totaling two columns of NUMBERS.
Jane and Angela are standing with two other TEENAGE GIRLS.
The two TEENAGE GIRLS move away from Jane and Angela.
The Colonel's Ford Explorer pulls up, and Ricky gets out.
Angela stares at Jane, then her mouth widens into a smile.
Jane suddenly finds Ricky standing in front of her.
He looks at her intently, his eyes searching hers.
Jane is unnerved and has to look away.
Ricky smiles and walks off.
Angela shoots a wide-eyed look at Jane, who ignores it.
The Colonel and Barbara are seated on a couch, watching television.
The Colonel is smiling, enjoying the show; Barbara just stares.
The Colonel CHUCKLES at a joke and startles her.
The three of them stare at the TV, like strangers in an airport.
We FOLLOW THEM as they pass a SIGN that reads.
Inside the ballroom, well-dressed real estate professionals stand in clumps, chatting.
Catering waiters serve hors d'eouvres.
Carolyn's jaw tightens, then.
She drags Lester toward a silver-haired MAN and his much younger WIFE.
We recognize the Man as BUDDY KANE, The Real Estate King.
A little too loudly.
Carolyn quickly joins in.
She smiles her most winning smile at him.
He knows this persona well, only it's never pissed him off as much as it does right now.
And he kisses her--a soft, warm kiss that speaks unmistakably of sex--then turns to the others and grins.
Carolyn's smile is frozen on her face.
He crosses off.
Lester stands at the bar.
A bartender pours him a drink.
The bartender complies.
Lester takes his drink and turns to face the center of the room.
Carolyn is talking to Buddy and Christy.
She's on: smiling, animated, LAUGHING too loud at their jokes.
Lester shakes his head.
Ricky approaches him, wearing a waiter's uniform, carrying a tray of empty glasses.
Lester looks away, scans the crowd, then downs the rest of his drink in one gulp.
Ricky just stands there, watching him.
Finally Lester turns back to Ricky: what does this kid want.
Lester's surprised, but instantly intrigued.
Carolyn and Buddy are deep in conversation.
Christy has wandered off.
Carolyn is nervous; Buddy seems amused.
They look at each other for a beat, then look away.
This situation is loaded and they both know it.
Ricky and Lester stand next to a dumpster behind the service entrance to the hotel, smoking a JOINT.
Suddenly, the service entrance opens, and a large CATERING BOSS in a cheap suit peers out at them.
Ricky hides the joint.
He goes back inside.
Lester looks at Ricky, who shrugs.
Carolyn is standing in the open service entrance.
Lester quickly hides the joint behind his back.
And she goes back inside.
Jane and Angela are watching MTV.
Jane switches off the TV.
She starts toward the kitchen.
Lester enters and opens the refrigerator.
He turns, and is instantly transfixed by: Angela leans against the counter, twirling her hair.
She starts toward him.
She reaches inside the refrigerator to grab a bottle.
EXTREME CLOSE UP on her hand as it briefly touches his shoulder in SLOW MOTION.
As she does, she moves to place her other hand casually on Lester's shoulder.
He sees it coming.
Everything SLOWS DOWN, and all sound FADES.
CLOSE on Lester: his eyes narrow slightly, then: He cups her face in his hands and kisses her.
She seems shocked, but doesn't resist as he pulls her toward him with surprising strength.
He breaks the kiss, looking at her in awe, then he reaches up and touches his lips.
His eyes widen as he pulls a ROSE PETAL from his mouth right before we .
Jane glances at Angela, irritated.
Angela is back against the counter, drinking the root beer.
Carolyn enters from the dining room.
He can't believe what he's hearing.
Lester, still in his suit, stands outside Jane's room, his ear up against the door.
Lester, still listening, looks like he's about to implode.
Jane covers her ears and starts SINGING to drown her out.
Jane's SINGING stops.
Panicked, Lester scurries down the hall.
Angela crosses to the window and looks out.
We see Angela standing at the window in her underwear, looking down at us.
We're across from Jane's window, looking in.
We ZOOM toward her, even as Angela poses in the window; we're clearly not interested in Angela.
Finally, we settle on the small make-up MIRROR where we see a REFLECTION of Jane, back at her computer.
Ricky sits in darkness with his DIGICAM, videotaping.
She's smiling.
Then suddenly the DRAPES CLOSE and she's gone.
He lowers the camera and smiles.
then something below catches his attention.
Through a WINDOW on the side of the Burnham's GARAGE DOOR, we see Lester, still in his suit, digging through shelves against the back wall.
Lester digs through stuff stored on the shelves, searching for something as if his very life depended on it.
Suddenly we HEAR someone trying to open a locked door.
Moving swiftly, Ricky pulls the drapes shut and switches on a light.
His room is a haven of high-tech.
A state-of-the- art multimedia COMPUTER crowds his desk, and high-end STEREO and VIDEO EQUIPMENT line the shelves, as well as HUNDREDS OF CDs.
There is easily twenty thousand dollars worth of equipment in this room.
Ricky opens the door.
The Colonel stands outside, eyeing him.
The Colonel holds out a small PLASTIC CUP WITH A CAP.
He disappears down the hall.
Ricky smiles, shuts and locks his door.
He puts the plastic cup on the shelf, then crosses to a MINI REFRIGERATOR in the corner of his room and takes out a cup-sized TUPPERWARE CONTAINER from the freezer, already filled with urine, albeit frozen, and places it on a saucer to thaw overnight.
Carolyn lies sleeping.
Lester is awake, staring at the ceiling.
After a moment, he gets up, taking care not to disturb Carolyn, and walks toward the bathroom.
The room is filled with STEAM.
Lester looks around, confused, then focuses on: Across from us, in a PEDESTAL BATHTUB, is Angela.
ROSE PETALS float on the surface of the water, obscuring her naked body.
Lester kneels by the bathtub like a man in church.
She arches her back and looks up at him provocatively.
Lester gives her a hard look, then slowly slips his hand into the water between her legs.
Her eyes widen and she throws her head back.
CLOSE on Carolyn, her eyes wide, listening to the rhythmic BRUSH of Lester's hand as he masturbates under the covers.
She flips over and faces him.
Carolyn gets out of bed, repelled.
Carolyn switches on the bedside LIGHT.
She sinks into a chair, stunned.
It's clear he knows where she's most vulnerable.
He sees this, and likes it; it feels good to win for a change.
He curls up under the covers contentedly.
CLOSE on Lester, smiling.
We're FLYING high above the neighborhood.
Below us we see the two Jims, jogging.
We APPROACH them steadily.
We're now at street level, FOLLOWING the two Jims.
Still running, the Jims turn back in perfect unison, as Lester runs INTO FRAME, wearing a baggy sweatshirt and a pair of faded old sweatpants.
The Jims slow down until he catches up, then the three men run together in the early morning light.
The Colonel stands, scowling, as Ricky comes out of the house, holding the URINE SAMPLE in front of him.
The Colonel is washing his Ford Explorer, squatting to scrub the bumper, when something Catches his eye: Lester and the Jims jog down the street.
Lester breaks off from the two Jims and jogs up to Ricky and the Colonel, out of breath.
He grabs hold of his knees and bends over, panting.
He LAUGHS, and extends his hand to the Colonel.
He salutes the Colonel good-naturedly, grinning.
An awkward beat.
He heads into the house.
Lester waves at the Colonel, then follows him.
The Colonel watches them go, his eyes dark.
Ricky enters, followed by Lester.
He gives the URINE SPECIMEN to Lester, then locks the door.
Lester picks up a CD case from a shelf and examines it.
Ricky crosses to a bureau and opens a DRAWER.
He takes clothing out and piles it on his bed.
Ricky, having emptied the drawer, now removes a FALSE BOTTOM, revealing rows of MARIJUANA, tightly packed in ZIP-LOC BAGS.
Lester smiles.
This kid's cool.
Carolyn, carrying a basket of fresh cut ROSES, passes by the GARAGE WINDOW.
Carolyn stops and SNIFFS the air, frowning.
She peers through the window.
Lester, in a T-shirt and gym shorts, lies on a new WEIGHT BENCH, doing bench presses with shiny new BARBELLS.
The garage is in the process of becoming Lester's sanctuary.
Lester finishes his last rep, straining, then puts the weights in their rack and sits up.
Lester looks up, squinting at: The door raises to reveal Carolyn, silhouetted against the bright sunlight outside, pointing a REMOTE at us.
Lester leans back on the bench and grabs the weights.
And she's gone.
Brad is seated behind his desk, reading a document.
Lester sits across from him, smiling.
Brad LAUGHS.
Brad stops laughing.
Brad leans back in his chair, studying Lester.
Exhilarated, Lester walks down a corridor, his belongings in a box on his shoulder.
He's happier than he's been in years.
Carolyn sits at a table, lost in thought.
There are two menus on the table.
After a moment, Buddy Kane, the Real Estate King, joins her.
Carolyn immediately becomes warm and gracious.
Carolyn smiles, genuinely touched that he remembers her name.
Carolyn picks hers up mechanically, but continues to stare at him, enraptured, like a fervent Christian who's just come face to face with Jesus.
Ricky stands with his DIGICAM, videotaping something on the ground at his feet.
A DEAD BIRD lays on the ground, decomposing.
The camera JERKS up to discover Jane and Angela staring at us.
Angela looks at Jane, trying not to laugh.
She falls out of frame as we ZOOM toward Jane.
Ricky lowers the Digicam.
Angela starts off, but Jane doesn't follow.
Ricky smiles at her.
Angela stops and stares at her.
Carolyn and Buddy are in the middle of sex.
Lester is driving, smoking a joint.
Lester's TOYOTA CAMRY cruises through the streets.
Lester turns down the volume on the stereo.
He pulls the car around to the WINDOW, where a teenage GIRL wearing a headset is waiting.
Lester pays her.
As she hands him his food, he notices a SIGN in the corner of the window that reads.
Lester sits at a booth with the MANAGER, a greasy kid wearing a white short sleeve shirt and a tie covered with the Mr. 
Smiley's logo.
He looks over Lester's application, baffled.
Carolyn and Buddy are in bed, post-sex.
They laugh.
Carolyn sits up, eager to learn from the master.
Carolyn is quick to pick up her cue and kisses him, ready for another round.
Ricky and Jane walk along without speaking.
He seems comfortable with the silence; she doesn't.
After a beat.
An automobile FUNERAL PROCESSION appears and begins to pass them slowly.
They watch the FUNERAL CARS pass.
Barbara Fitts sits at the kitchen table, staring off into space as if hypnotized.
Behind her, Ricky enters, followed by Jane.
Barbara's eyes flutter and she turns to him slowly.
Jane glances around.
The room is spotless.
GLASS CASES filled with GUNS line the walls.
Ricky crosses to a built-in CABINET behind the desk.
He unlocks the cabinet and opens it, revealing shelves stacked with WAR MEMORABILIA.
He reaches into the cabinet and carefully removes an oval CHINA PLATTER, which he hands to Jane.
She examines it.
CLOSE on the bottom of the plate: A small SWASTIKA is imprinted in the center.
He puts the platter back into the cabinet and shuts the door, then notices Jane looking at him oddly.
Ricky studies her.
We're in an empty parking lot on a cold, gray day.
Something is floating across from us.
it's an empty, wrinkled, white PLASTIC BAG.
We follow it as the wind carries it in a circle around us, sometimes whipping it about violently, or, without warning, sending it soaring skyward, then letting it float gracefully down to the ground.
Jane and Ricky sit on the bed, watching his WIDE-SCREEN TV.
Now Jane is watching him.
After a moment, Jane takes his hand.
His eyes scan hers, curious to see how she reacts to this.
Then she leans in and kisses him softly on the lips.
Lester sits at the table in sloppy clothes, eating his dinner voraciously and drinking beer from a bottle.
Across from him, Carolyn picks at her food, watching him with contempt.
Jane stares at both her parents, apprehensive.
Jane does so, surprised and intimidated by the power in his voice.
Lester gets up, crosses to the other side of the table to get a PLATE OF ASPARAGUS, then sits again as he serves himself.
Lester hurls the plate of asparagus against the wall with such force it SHATTERS, frightening Carolyn and Jane.
He goes back to eating his meal, as if nothing unusual has happened.
Jane just stares at the plate in front of her.
Jane is sitting on her bed.
There is a KNOCK at the door.
Jane rolls her eyes, crosses to the door and lets Carolyn in.
She stares at Jane, then starts to cry.
Carolyn suddenly SLAPS Jane, hard.
Embarrassed, she quickly leaves.
Jane looks in a mirror and rubs her cheek, then crosses to the window and looks out.
We're across from Ricky's room, looking in.
He stands at the window with his DIGICAM, videotaping us.
We're behind Ricky as he videotapes Jane in her window.
She waves.
Ricky just keeps videotaping.
A beat, then she starts to take off her shirt.
She has now removed her shirt.
She stands there in her bra, then reaches behind her back to unhook the bra.
We ZOOM toward her as she takes off her bra clumsily.
On the WIDE-SCREEN TV behind him, we see Jane standing in her window as she looks across at him.
She stands there with her breasts exposed, trying to look defiant, but she's achingly vulnerable.
Suddenly, the door is thrown open and the Colonel enters, incensed.
Startled, Ricky turns around.
As soon as his eyes meet his father's, he knows what's up.
Ricky scrambles to dodge his father, but the Colonel is too fast; he punches Ricky in the face, knocking him to the floor.
From her window, Jane watches, pulling the drapes in front of her.
Ricky's lip is bleeding, but he maintains a steady gaze at his father during this violence.
In the WINDOW across from us, the Colonel proceeds to give Ricky a serious beating, punching his face.
The Colonel grabs him by the collar.
The Colonel glances toward the window.
in the window across from us, Jane peeks out from behind the drape.
She quickly pulls it shut.
The Colonel is suddenly, deeply shamed.
The Colonel stands, still breathing heavily.
He leaves.
Ricky gets up and goes to his bureau.
He looks at his reflection in the mirror, calmly takes a cloth and starts to wipe the blood from his face.
Carolyn, wearing PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR, is holding a GLOCK AUTOMATIC REVOLVER with both hands, FIRING it directly at us.
She empties a round and stands there, exhilarated.
An ATTENDANT approaches with a new round of ammunition.
And she starts FIRING again.
Her face has lost its usual resolute determination; she's actually enjoying herself spontaneously, and the lack of her usual self-consciousness allows us to see just how beautiful she is.
ANGLE ON the GLOCK sitting on the passenger seat amidst some CDs.
The Mercedes turns onto Robin Hood Trail.
We turn into the Burnham driveway.
A PONTIAC FIREBIRD with racing stripes blocks our access to the garage.
The room, too, seems changed: sloppier, more lived in.
Lester is sprawled on the couch in his underwear, drinking a BEER and controlling the car.
Lester's REMOTE-CONTROLLED MODEL JEEP is zooming across the floor of the family room, expertly maneuvering corners and narrowly avoiding crashing.
She just stands there, staring at Lester.
His working out is beginning to produce results.
He smiles at her playfully.
It's the same look she had at the beginning, when he dropped his briefcase, but whatever power that look had is gone.
Lester just LAUGHS.
His face is close to hers, and suddenly the atmosphere is charged.
She pulls back automatically, but it's clear she's drawn to him.
He smiles, and moves even closer, holding his beer loosely balanced.
Then, just before their lips meet.
She's immediately sorry she said it, but it's too late.
His smile fades, and the moment is gone.
He stands and gestures toward all the things in the room.
Carolyn stares at him, on the verge of tears, then turns and walks out of the room before he can see her cry.
Jane lays in Ricky's bed, wearing a tank top.
She glances at us.
We're watching the WIDE-SCREEN TV in Ricky's room.
A CORD leads from the TV to Ricky's DIGICAM.
Ricky holds the camera, standing naked.
He's aiming his camera at Jane.
She gets out of bed, takes his Digicam and focuses it on him.
We see his image on the TV as she videotapes.
Jane ZOOMS in on his face, which remains placid.
Ricky smiles.
He grabs a half-smoked JOINT from an ashtray and lights it.
He passes her the joint, then takes the Digicam and focuses it on her.
We see her image on the TV as he videotapes.
Jane looks into the camera, a loopy, stoned grin on her face.
They LAUGH.
She lays back on the bed.
Her mind wanders for a beat.
Jane looks at him and sits up.
She smiles dreamily at him.
He turns the Digicam off and the TV screen goes BLUE.
He lowers the camera and looks at her intently.
He puts the Digicam down and joins Jane on the bed.
A long moment where neither of them speaks.
He caresses her hair, gazing into her eyes.
We're FLYING above Robin Hood Trail.
We see the BURNHAM'S HOUSE below us as we APPROACH it steadily.
We're almost on top of the Burnham house now, as Lester, wearing sweatpants and running shoes, bursts out of the front door and dashes up the driveway.
We're now at street level, as Lester runs toward us.
He's in excellent shape; even his posture has changed, and he moves with the confident, easy swagger of an athlete.
The endorphins have kicked in, and Lester grins, reveling in the sheer physical pleasure of his body.
The blender GRINDS as Lester, still in his sweatpants, makes himself a high-protein shake.
Jane watches him blankly from the kitchen table.
Carolyn enters.
Lester leans against the counter, drinking his shake directly from the blender pitcher, eyeing her.
He's got a newfound sexual energy that makes her uncomfortable, and he knows it.
Carolyn quickly rinses off her coffee cup, avoiding his eyes, and starts out.
Jane looks at Lester to see how he reacts.
And she's gone.
Jane continues staring at her father.
Finally, he glances over at her.
Jane is stunned.
She quickly rises, trying to get out of the kitchen before she starts crying.
ANGLE on Lester, and the immediate regret in his eyes.
We're outside Ricky's room, MOVING slowly toward the open door, through which we can see Ricky, standing at his bureau mirror, combing his hair.
The scars on his face are almost gone now.
A REVERSE ANGLE reveals the Colonel standing outside the door looking in, watching Ricky with great tenderness.
Then Ricky looks up at him, and the Colonel is suddenly self- conscious.
Ricky emerges from the house, followed by the Colonel, who watches his son as he heads toward the Burnham house.
Carolyn waves from the Mercedes, flashing an insincere smile.
Jane leans forward from the passenger seat and glares at us.
As Ricky starts to get in the car, Lester emerges from the house in his sweatpants.
The Colonel watches, at first baffled, then impatient.
CLOSE on the Colonel's face: he looks confused.
CLOSE on the Colonel, deeply troubled.
The door swings open silently and the Colonel enters.
He starts going through Ricky's bureau.
He opens the DRAWER in which we know Ricky keeps his marijuana, but he doesn't discover its false bottom.
He stands and looks around, his eyes finally landing on: The DIGICAM and a stack of CASSETTES on a shelf.
Barbara Fitts sits at the kitchen table, staring off into space.
He takes the cassette out of the Digicam and inserts another.
His face tightens.
On the TV screen we see.
The Colonel sinks slowly onto Ricky's bed, mesmerized.
Then, naked except for his black socks, he grabs the dumbbells and starts lifting them, watching his reflection in the window as he does.
The camera is still connected to the TV.
Lester, wearing a Mr. 
Smiley's uniform, is happily flipping burgers on a grill.
Lester looks up suddenly when he HEARS.
Lester's face darkens, then.
he smiles.
He puts his spatula down.
The Mercedes pulls around to the DRIVE-THRU WINDOW.
Carolyn drives; Buddy sits beside her.
They are too involved with each other to notice Lester watching them from the drive-thru window.
Lester leans out of the drive-thru window, grinning at her, holding bags filled with fast food.
The Counter Girl stands next to him, staring blankly.
Carolyn almost jumps out of her skin.
Carolyn struggles to appear nonchalant.
The sky is filled with ominous gray clouds.
Wind whips garbage across the parking lot as Carolyn's Mercedes pulls in next to Buddy's Jaguar.
Carolyn grips the wheel tightly, staring straight ahead.
Buddy looks at her unhappily.
He just looks at her sadly, then gets out of the car and shuts the door.
She starts to CRY.
Buddy's Jaguar speeds off, leaving the Mercedes alone in the parking lot.
She closes her eyes tight, trying to stop the tears, then suddenly SCREAMS as loud as she can.
We can still HEAR Carolyn's muffled SCREAMING.
He puts the weights down and looks at his REFLECTION in the window: His arms are pumped.
He reaches under the bench and grabs a CIGAR BOX.
He smiles.
Opening it, he digs through MARIJUANA PARAPHERNALIA, only to pull out an empty ZIP-LOC BAG.
Ricky and the Colonel sit at the table, eating in silence.
Ricky pulls his BEEPER off his belt and checks it.
He heads into the hall.
The Colonel watches him go, uneasy.
It's RAINING outside.
Angela drives, squinting through the windshield as the wipers move back and forth.
Something outside catches his eye, and he cranes his neck to get a better look at.
Through the window over the sink, we can see into the Burnham's GARAGE WINDOW.
Our view is blurred by the RAIN, but we see Lester, his upper body pumped and glistening in sweat as he counts out a wad of BILLS.
and then Ricky walks into view.
Lester drapes his arm around Ricky as he gives him the money.
We can only see Lester from the waist up, so he looks naked.
Ricky, his hair wet from the rain, puts the cash in his pocket.
Lester's arm remains draped around his shoulder.
Ricky grins, then squats down and reaches under the weight bench.
Lester sits in the bowl chair and leans back, his hands behind his head, watching Ricky roll the joint.
The Colonel's POV: Lester leans back in his chair.
We see only Ricky's back and shoulders as he rolls the joint.
The Colonel's face tightens.
After a beat, Lester's jaw drops, then he throws his head back.
From our perspective, it looks very much like Ricky is giving Lester a blow job.
The Colonel watches, incredulous.
Then we HEAR a CAR APPROACHING, and the Colonel glances over at: Angela's BMW pulls into the driveway, stopping behind Lester's Firebird.
As Angela and Jane get out and run toward the house, our focus MOVES back to the GARAGE WINDOW.
Ricky stands, looking a little panicked.
Lester pulls on his T-shirt, and both he and Ricky cross out of view.
Jane and Angela enter.
Jane frowns when she sees him.
Lester leans nonchalantly against the counter.
He's trying to remain cool, and doing a pretty good job.
Jane rolls her eyes and exits.
Angela walks over to Lester.
She places her hand on his arm flirtatiously, looks up at him and smiles, fully expecting to intimidate him by doing so.
But something has changed, and he isn't intimidated at all.
He looks directly back at her, leans in and smiles slowly.
His voice is low and intense.
She moves away, suddenly insecure.
And she heads out quickly.
Lester watches her go, baffled.
Ricky enters, wet from the pouring rain, and crosses to his bureau, pulling the wad of CASH out of his pocket as he goes.
Ricky turns, startled.
The Colonel steps out of the shadows.
The Colonel BACKHANDS Ricky so hard it sends the boy sprawling.
He gets up.
Ricky eyes the Colonel.
He's finally discovered a way to break free from his father, and he can't believe it was this simple.
Ricky grabs his backpack, turns and walks out the door, leaving the Colonel standing there, glassy-eyed and breathing heavily.
Ricky enters to discover Barbara standing in the middle of the room, clutching a dish, frightened.
She's obviously heard his argument with his father, and she looks into his eyes, searching, aware that something eventful is taking place.
He kisses her cheek softly, then exits out the back door, leaving her standing alone, still clutching her dish.
The Colonel's POV: Below us, Ricky dashes through the rain to the Burnham's front door and knocks.
The Colonel looks coldly down at us from Ricky's bedroom window, and then he pulls the drapes shut.
Cars ZOOM past in the rain.
Carolyn sits behind the wheel, listening to a MOTIVATIONAL TAPE on the STEREO.
Carolyn leans over and open the glove compartment.
She takes out her GLOCK .
Jane stands across the room from her.
Angela is sprawled across the bed.
There is a KNOCK on the door.
Jane jumps up and opens the door and lets him in.
Angela stares at him, stunned, then starts toward the door.
And she exits, SLAMMING the door behind her.
Jane turns to Ricky and he takes her in his arms.
Angela sits on the stairs, shaken, crying.
We're MOVING SLOWLY toward the Burnham's GARAGE WINDOW through the RAIN.
Through the window, we see Lester, wearing only his sweatpants, performing bench presses.
Through the window, we see the Colonel standing outside, watching.
We ZOOM slowly in on him as he watches, transfixed.
Lester finishes his last rep, then racks the weights and sits up, sweaty and out of breath.
And then he glances at us, suddenly aware he's being watched.
Lester and the Colonel stare at each other through the window.
We're directly outside the GARAGE DOOR as it slowly lifts to reveal Lester smiling at us.
The RAIN is coming down in sheets now, and there is a sharp CLAP of THUNDER.
The Colonel moves stiffly and seems preoccupied, slightly disoriented.
The Colonel just stands there, looking at Lester.
The Colonel moves closer towards him.
He grins.
and so does the Colonel.
He places his hand on the Colonel's shoulder.
The Colonel closes his eyes.
and then kisses him.
Lester is momentarily stunned, and then he pushes the Colonel away.
The Colonel's face crumples in shame.
The Colonel stares at the floor, blinking, and then he turns and runs out the open garage door into the rainy night.
Carolyn is still listening to the same MOTIVATIONAL TAPE.
She holds the GLOCK in her hand.
Carolyn switches the TAPE OFF and puts the gun in her purse.
The Mercedes pulls away from the shoulder.
Lester enters, opens the refrigerator and grabs a BEER.
Lester opens his beer and starts toward the family room.
Lester leans against the wall and takes a swig of his beer.
AS we MOVE SLOWLY around a corner, Angela comes into view, standing at the STEREO, holding a CD case.
She's been crying; her face is puffy, and her hair mussed.
She regards us apprehensively.
then puts on a slightly defiant smile.
She smiles.
Lester holds the bottle up to her mouth and she drinks clumsily.
He gently wipes her chin with the back of his hand.
They stand there in silence; the atmosphere is charged.
He is sexy.
She's unnerved--this is happening too fast.
She's trying to be seductive as she says this, but she's pretty bad at it.
His face is very close to hers.
Angela takes a deep breath just before Lester leans in to kiss her cheek, her forehead, her eyelids, her neck.
And Lester kisses her on the lips.
Carolyn drives, her face resolute.
Angela lays back on the couch as Lester moves in over her.
He pulls her jeans off and gently brushes his fingers over her legs, then moves up and caresses her face.
Ricky and Jane, fully clothed, lie curled up on Jane's bed.
She seems disconnected from what's happening.
Lester starts unbuttoning Angela's blouse.
Lester pulls her blouse open, exposing her breasts.
Lester looks down at her, grinning, unable to believe he's actually about to do what he's dreamed of so many times, and then.
Lester LAUGHS.
Lester looks down at her, his grin fading.
Angela lies beneath us, embarrassed and vulnerable.
This is not the mythically carnal creature of Lester's fantasies; this is a nervous child.
Lester's face falls.
He grabs a blanket from the back of the couch and drapes it around her shoulders, covering her nakedness.
He smiles and shakes his head.
Humiliated, Angela starts to cry.
He hugs her, letting her put her head on his shoulder, stroking her hair and rocking her gently.
But she keeps crying.
The Mercedes pulls onto Robin Hood Trail.
CLOSE on Carolyn's eyes, reflected in the REAR-VIEW MIRROR.
She turns her head to look out the window: The RED DOOR of the Burnham house stands out, even in the pouring rain.
Angela, once again fully clothed, sits at the kitchen counter.
She's eating a turkey sandwich.
He turns to her and cocks an eyebrow.
A long beat, as Lester studies her, then.
They just sit there, smiling at each other, then.
She crosses off.
Lester watches her go, then stands there wondering why he should suddenly feel so content.
Something at the edge of the counter catches his eye, and he reaches for.
Lester crosses to the kitchen table, where he sits and studies the photo.
CLOSE on a framed PHOTOGRAPH as he picks it up: It's the photo we saw earlier of him, Carolyn and Jane, taken several years ago at an amusement park.
It's startling how happy they look.
He suddenly seems older, more mature.
and then he smiles: the deep, satisfied smile of a man who just now understands the punch line of a joke he heard long ago.
After a beat, the barrel of a GUN rises up behind his head, aimed at the base of his skull.
ANGLE ON an arrangement of fresh-cut ROSES in a vase on the opposite counter, deep crimson against the WHITE TILE WALL.
Instantly, the tile is sprayed with BLOOD, the same deep crimson as the roses.
Ricky comes down the stairs, followed by Jane.
Ricky opens the door from the dining room, then stops.
Jane appears behind him.
A pool of blood is forming on the kitchen table.
Ricky comes into the kitchen and slowly approaches Lester's lifeless body, wide-eyed but not afraid.
Ricky kneels, gazing at Lester's unseen face.
Lester looks back at us; his eyes are lifeless, but he's smiling the same slight smile.
then he smiles, ever so slightly.
We're FLYING across a white blanket of clouds.
Eleven-year-old Lester looks up, pointing excitedly at: A DOT OF LIGHT falls across an unbelievably starry sky.
Ricky and Jane lie curled up on Jane's bed, fully clothed.
They look at each other, alarmed.
Maple trees in autumn.
Ghostly LEAVES FLUTTER slowly toward pavement.
Angela stands in front of the mirror, fixing her make-up.
Angela turns, frightened.
CLOSE on an ancient woman's papery HANDS as they button a cardigan sweater.
Carolyn walks slowly toward the RED DOOR, drenched to the bone, clutching her PURSE tightly.
A PONTIAC FIREBIRD in the driveway of a suburban home.
The SUN'S REFLECTION in the windshield .
The Colonel enters, wet.
He's wearing LATEX GLOVES.
BLOOD covers the front of his T-shirt.
He paces in front of one of his GUN CASES; the GLASS DOOR is open, and a gun is conspicuously missing from inside.
Jane opens her bedroom door, staring at us.
A door opens to reveal JANE, dressed for Halloween in a Princess costume, holding a lit SPARKLER aloft and smiling shyly at us.
Carolyn enters, terrified, still clutching her PURSE.
She shuts the door and locks it, then takes the GLOCK out of her purse.
She opens the closet door and shoves the gun into a HAMPER.
Then, suddenly aware of Lester's scent, she grabs as many of his clothes as she can and pulls them to her, burying her face in them.
She sinks to her knees, pulling several items of clothing down with her, and she begins to cry.
IN BLACK & WHITE: A younger Carolyn sits across from us in one of those SPINNING-TEACUP RIDES, LAUGHING uncontrollably as she twists the wheel in front of her, making us SPIN even faster.
We're watching the video Ricky showed Jane earlier, of the empty white PLASTIC BAG being blown about.
The wind carries it in a circle around us, sometimes whipping it about violently, or, without warning, sending it soaring skyward, then letting it float gracefully down to the ground.
We're FLYING once again over Robin Hood Trail, ASCENDING .
And now she turns and faces the hallway.
her sweetness dissolves in a flash.
replaced by repulsion and that quickly she has reversed herself and re-entered her apartment.
closing the door as we consider her vacated.
Right now all his considerable talent and strength is totally focused on seducing a tiny dog into the elevator door he holds open.
Sniffing at a particular spot on the hall carpeting.
Melvin lets the elevator door close and advances on the mutt who has ignores him.
The dog lifts his leg at the precise moment Melvin lunges and picks him up with a decisive heft -- so that dog urine squirts the hall wall for a second or two.
The DOG sensing a kindred spirit starts to GROWL and BARK.
The dog takes a snap at Melvin, but the man is much meaner and quicker than the dog -- he holds his snout shut with his hand and reaches for the door of the garbage chute.
And with that, he stuffs him in the garbage chute and lets go.
as another apartment door opens emitting the loud sounds of a PARTY and SIMON NYE, early he bolts into the hall.
Melvin is just about to enter his apartment.
He notices Melvin at the far end of the hall.
Melvin starts to walk back to his apartment door which is directly opposite Simon's.
and sees his black friend.
Then notices the Handyman, tongue in cheek, trying to suppress his amusement.
He barely reacts as we hear a LOUD KNOCKING at he reads.
He burst from his chair.
As Simon hears MELVIN through the door and takes a step back.
Melvin throws open the door.
He looks demonic.
Melvin walks back into the apartment and is about to close the door when Simon has another burst of bravery.
Melvin enters his apartment and slams the door shut.
Frank smiles affectionately.
Simon turns serious.
Frank waits patiently as Melvin jerks his door back open.
Frank immediately grabs Melvin by his shirt and jerks him forward.
Melvin is scared.
Melvin appears impressed.
A crowded and dirty street and here comes Melvin.
His walk is brisk -- an animal wanting to pass through the danger without giving off the scent of its mounting fear.
At times he places his palms together and extends his arms cutting a path through people.
We will be very pointed in the fact that he avoids stepping on cracks.
His eyes focused on the terrain.
CAROL CONNELLY talks with another MOTHER -- a customer.
She is telling a story about her son for the umpteenth time.
The Mother nods too sympathetically that she does, but Carol interrupts her.
They turn away -- Melvin walks a few paces to the waitress station where two waitresses, LISA and CAROL, are talking.
She puts two hands lightly on his waist to move him out of the way.
He gulps at the contact (since no one else ever touches him) but covers his self-consciousness.
She barks a mirthless though hearty laugh.
If we could read Melvin which we can't, we'd see him unsettled by the date talk.
The two waitresses signal their protests.
Melvin walks back into the restaurant proper.
he hangs near their table.
his discomfort builds in this limbo.
The Woman starts to protest.
There is in Carol's attitude toward Melvin some ingredient of self-satisfaction -- that she is the only one in the place who can handle him.
She starts to clear the table.
Some crazy street-freak has slipped under her perfect guard and momentarily devastated her.
Melvin senses that he's gone way too far.
A beat and then Melvin nods, hardly breathing -- backing down.
She walks away.
Melvin watches her, biting his lower lip.
She is underneath a YOUNGER, cuter MAN on the living room sofa.
each time startling herself with her own noise and trying to reign it in.
The Young Man stops and looks at her.
Pulling herself together she goes off down the hallway.
she takes them off when she sees Carol, then hears the cough.
Carol now goes into her son's room.
The room is a monument to horrible, sleepless nights.
two drugstore de-humidifying filters, a nebulizer (breathing contraption) a waste basket.
a night stand filled with medicine, a blood pressure kit.
along with some stacks of seven-year-old toys and a small TV wedged into the tiny space.
Carol feels his head.
Then he coughs -- trying to suppress it.
She brings up a waste basket as he throws up.
she comforts him.
He apologizes.
As she re-enters.
He is taking a cigarette from a pack.
He palms the cigarette.
resumes making out.
 his hand squeezes her breast.
 then he stops and looks at his hand.
She looks down and sees a bit of throw-up he picked up while feeling her and then notices him looking at her with extreme distaste.
She barks a laugh to cover her embarrassment but speaks the truth.
Seeing the Hustlers.
He leads the way back toward the studio. chatting away unaware that Vincent is disrobing as he follows him and eyeing the expensive apartment.
And he turns and sees the naked model.
Vincent moves back to retrieve his clothes.
Vincent is striking blatantly sexual poses to the increasingly uneasy Simon.
Vincent has instinctively put Simon on the defensive.
Vincent's slack-jawed expression changes.
He feels an intellectual tingle to be having this conversation.
There's a joy in him at this moment -- a bit of purity.
Carol and LESLIE, another waitress, are waiting for their order at the cappuccino bar.
Leslie is telling the story of the traumatic audition which may have turned her life.
As they pass Melvin she does not break stride, nor give him notice.
Though she is aware of him -- resentfully so -- hard not to be since he is giving a moment to moment commentary on her every action.
Melvin stops -- she passes behind him to deliver an uncharacteristic rabbit punch.
Melvin just looks at her.
She exits.
The greenhouse studio is a busy sanctuary, as Simon puts the finishing touches on his painting of Vincent.
Vincent quickly and expertly picks a CD to meet his immediate needs and puts it on -- dying a little at every second of silence during the transition.
 he gestures Vincent to take it down.
A beat and then a strange figure crosses between the CAMERA and the scene -- gone before we can examine him further.
where it is not clear that a robbery is in progress -- Vincent's two friends from the street sweeping all objects into large sacks -- one of them, Doug, pauses to look past the terrace to the studio.
And he uses the hat rack first as a spear, then as a club, as the brief savage attack begins.
The three attackers leave.
as he starts to go toward Simon and then scurries back in fear.
A single BARK from VERDELL.
A mass of OFFICIAL PEOPLE clutter the hall as a gurney is whisked down to the elevator.
Melvin is standing against the wall near his door a cop, RAY, interviewing him.
Frank standing upset, anxious, holding a dog bowl, a leash and VERDELL, who is more upset making pathetic little CRYING.
As we FOCUS BRIEFLY ON Verdell.
Frank is talking to the Sweet-Faced Woman.
A short laugh makes us realize that Melvin has witnessed and enjoyed Frank's hostile mutterings.
VERDELL starts WHIMPERING as a pissed Frank approaches his mugger.
Frank pushes open the door to Melvin's apartment and places Verdell inside.
We STAY with the dog during the O.S.
VERDELL STOPS -- gives Melvin wide berth -- slinking along the far wall.
Melvin finds Verdell's fear of him a bit calming.
Melvin breaks two eggs over a large pile of prime chopped meat, sticks raw pieces of bacon into it and exits the room.
ignoring Verdell he sits at the piano and his one key repeatedly.
his recent past making him suspect this feast is a trick.
Verdell looks over with surprise and pleasure.
Verdell shifts his body so he is eating from the bowl with his tail to Melvin.
Frank on the phone.
As Jackie enters.
He turns toward her.
Simon's face is something of a horror.
The sight is a jolt.
Jackie breaks into tears.
They share a helpless half-laugh -- then Frank appears in the doorway.
She starts to hand him a large mirror from her purse -- then thinks better of it.
But he holds out his hand and she gives him the mirror.
Simon holds the mirror poised for a moment of discovery, then he takes a breath -- like someone about to dive underwater.
 he starts to look.
First a small, mumbled pep talk to himself.
He quickly brings his hand up and looks at the mirror.
AN ESTABLISHING SHOT FEATURING Verdell tied up in front.
Carol looks totally beat as she sets down a cup of coffee.
Melvin is craning periodically to keep an eye of his dog.
She reaches for the plate of uneaten bacon -- he goes nuts.
She is jolted by the insensitivity of his interruption, but he doesn't notice, turning, almost chatty.
Melvin nods -- a bit frustrated about not being able to finish his dog story.
He pockets the remaining bacon.
As Melvin walks Verdell back home, we notice, perhaps a beat before Melvin, a remarkably event.
Verdell is avoiding the cracks in the sidewalk.
Melvin slows -- observes the dog mirroring his behavior.
again carefully placing his paws to avoid a crack in the sidewalk.
Melvin laughs out loud -- puts on plastic gloves hurriedly so he can lift the dog to eye level.
Melvin whaling away at his computer, reading to himself with great satisfaction as he goes.
Verdell sits at his chair, fascinated by the speed of his master's fingers on the keyboard.
He reads his writing aloud to the dog.
As he looks over at the dog, Verdell trots over and, without realizing it, Melvin smiles at him to Frank's surprise.
Verdell looks up at him.
Melvin walks to the door.
He turns the lock.
then checks that they are locked.
anguished, until now he breaks briefly, the dog looking on.
Melvin opens the door -- looks at the scarred Simon in a wheelchair and shudders.
A beat of silence as Melvin thinks whether to comply.
Simon pats his leg -- trying unsuccessfully to get Verdell to approach him.
Instead the dog goes to the door and scratches at it.
Jackie starts to pick the dog up.
Melvin bursts in on the psychiatrist and emits one word.
Melvin shakes his head -- as if things weren't bad enough he must go through a careful exercise noting every new element before he's at all comfortable.
More PATIENTS in the almost-crowded waiting room.
Melvin passes through -- visibly drawn and upset.
He stops.
Eyes on them.
They look stricken.
He exits.
CHERYL, a heavy-set waitress, reluctantly moves to his table -- Unseen by Melvin as he takes out his utensils and arranges them.
In a corner booth, four big TRANSIT AUTHORITY POLICE are having a meal together.
Cheryl looks at his utensils.
The MANAGER comes over, gesturing to the table of police that he can handle it.
All attention is on Melvin.
Melvin looks at the police, sizes up the hopeless situation and rises.
Melvin, ever the shark observer, looks from the cab to see slices of community life -- MEN in front of a bar, PARENTS giving their CHILD a ride on a mechanical horse outside a local store -- two YOUNG WOMEN discuss dating.
Carol opens the door just as he arrives on her landing.
She holds a container of ice, washclothes and a thermometer.
Melvin ignores the question, instead answering a charge he had imagined she might make.
Spencer just stares at him.
She closes the door in his face, then walks to her son and leads him back to his room.
CAMERA MOVES TOWARD mother and son sitting on the edge of Spencer's bed.
She holds a digital thermometer to his ear.
They both count down the seconds.
As they settle in and drive off.
As Carol enters the hospital.
Verdell lies just inside the front door whimpering for Melvin.
Jackie sits across from Simon's wheel chair.
she has some index cards in her laps which she occasionally consults and shuffles.
Simon forces his attention to Jackie.
as their conversation continues -- the dog is distressed.
Verdell walks out on the terrace and looks off.
He turns for.
Verdell hides behind a chair.
As Jackie looks at him then thumbs for a card.
 the woman is tall, attractive, etc.
She nods, pissed, waves and leaves.
As Melvin waits, Zoe summons her moxie.
The fan is jolted as the elevator doors open and close.
A depleted, exhausted Carol approaches her home.
She is suddenly wary.
As Carol breaks into a run.
As she bounds the stairs, comes to her apartment door and jiggles with the keys, a strange prescient whimpering sound coming from her.
As she enters the apartment.
The worst confirmed, she moves down the narrow hallway, her innards squirting the same chemicals that drives elk on opening day of the hunting season.
Beverly, Carol's mother, enters the room.
She is ebullient which, if life allowed, would be her natural state.
Bettes' reaction her mother adds a saving grace.
As we approach the doctor and Carol seated across from each other at a small table.
Carol look at her mother -- they share a laugh.
Beverly has a hard time stopping.
Simon practices walking using his cane.
A tearstained Nora hugs him good-bye.
Nora holding her things, knocks on Melvin's door.
Melvin opens the door.
Nora is still sniffling.
He closes the door in her face.
She stands there.
thrown by the abruptness  pausing briefly outside Simon's door then continues on her way
The doctor gone, mother and daughter arguing.
he grunts with pain, hope and anxiety as he answers.
Simon wheels away from Melvin.
Simon is a wheelchair.
Melvin pauses -- Simon weeping.
Simon swings his arm and cast at Melvin -- the sudden attack jolts Melvin but not as much as what follows.
Melvin has made for the door.
Simon blocks him.
Verdell looks at Simon with concern.
As Simon works to stop crying, Melvin is weird with discomfort.
Simon looks up, his mood turning on a dime -- he's rapt.
looking apologetically at Simon in stoic ruin.
Carol in bed on the pullout sofa.
She walks to the kitchen.
She is trembling as she drinks a glass of water and exits.
Carol crossing to Manhattan.
She looks as if she's on her way to some final exam where she has no notion of the subject.
Hot summer night as she gets off the bus and now the rains come.
As Carol consults the slip of paper with the address on it.
As she enters building and realizes it's not just that she's wet -- the thin summer dress is a winner in any wet T-shirt contest.
As Carol passes Simon's door.
the fabric clinging to her breasts, like the old movie poster of The Deep.
stands in front of Melvin's apartment -- twists herself to ease nervousness and knocks on the door.
Finally Carol hears MUFFLED THROAT CLEARING on the other side of the door.
As we hear him unlock the door, Carol looks at her breasts and gasps.
She grasps the fabric and holds it straight out just as Melvin opens the door.
His hair is static city, standing on end as he periodically gives it self-conscious pats.
She pauses -- the beginning of an extraordinarily long silence.
Melvin's reaction? Well, he'll never get credit for the brief but intense inner struggle -- the struggle not to scream -- Not to cry -- to process the sudden and stunning hurt during his half turn away from her -- and then answer hoarsely.
Carol is amused, surprised.
as the two digital clocks on Melvin's night stand tell us.
He gets up
 taps one foot on the floor twice then the other foot with two more taps.
He knocks of Simon's door.
It opens quickly.
Simon walks painfully back to a chair.
He rises and makes an awkward exit.
He exits -- Simon puzzled and concerned.
Carol seated working on a letter.
She is trying to express her gratitude.
An enormous sheaf of completed pages sit next to her.
wide-eyed with apprehension, she looks at her mother, who, in return, only nods permission for Carol to let it go.
A last defiant snort from Carol -- and then she is overwhelmed.
Carol breathes heavily -- gets control, stopping herself on the brink of crying.
Slumped, fought out -- Carol gets out one last, naked husky voiced question.
A beat, then.
He hands it back to her deliberately.
She takes it and walks back to the service area where, embarrassed, confused, and messed with -- she tosses the note.
After Carol leaves.
Melvin looks up -- wary -- his brain sends a disturbing message.
Carol enters scene.
She exits.
Frank prepares to depart.
Frank stumbles back.
self-satisfied, he relaxes.
Frank adjusts and exits.
She offers him the note.
And finally Carol notes Melvin's mood and pauses.
She looks at him for a very strange, long beat.
Carol takes an old weekend case down from the top shelf of the closet.
Now she looks in another drawer and pauses as if she ponders one of the mysteries of the ages.
She hesitates then talks to herself.
puts it back.
Melvin is in his bedroom -- everything he's taking neatly stacked on the bed waiting to be packed (he is taking a camera).
He has a list of what he needs.
All items underwear, socks, etc.
with four checks next to each one and still he -- checks each stack on the bed and adds another check.
The PHONE RINGS.
He makes a little comment to himself as he moves.
This is an amazing development.
He has almost no recent experience with receiving a nighttime phone call.
As she picks up the phone.
Melvin visibly relaxes.
Frank starts to leave -- Simon stops him.
They embrace.
As Frank moves off Melvin sees Carol and his demeanor changes.
Carol puts her bag in the car.
And off they go.
Simon and Carol stunned by the manners.
Turning onto Fifth.
CAMERA FOLLOWS as Melvin goes to a rack of CDs -- all carefully labelled.
Carol chattering away.
Simon and Carol have thus declared their majority.
Carol, whose life has been rugged but basic, feels as strange as she does moved by Simon's trauma which is so much more complicated than her meat and potatoes troubles.
She looks out her window -- then kisses her fingers and touches them to Simon's cheek.
A nice, understated, gesture of friendship.
Melvin is visibly disturbed by her gesture.
Carol walks to Simon and puts an arm on him.
She gives Simon a kiss.
She turns to him.
She exits the room.
Melvin unnerved.
As Carol, dressed in a thrift shop find, enters the main room of the suite and hears the SHOWER running -- she sits down to wait -- through.
Showing the enormous length of time which transpires until finally a seriously clean Melvin emerges from the bathroom through a cloud of steam.
They exit.
As they enters.
As the car goes right across the street to a shopping mall.
Melvin walks to the doorway and stops suddenly.
CAMERA REVEALS that the floor is intricately patterned so that passage for Melvin is impossible.
Melvin watches her approach.
They arrives at the table.
He holds out her chair for her.
Melvin has no idea he has insulted her.
Sandbagged in extreme, she gets up -- actually ready to leave.
He waves her down.
She thinks and then nods.
The waiter is across the room.
Amazing that something in Melvin rises to the occasion -- so that he uncharacteristically looks at her directly -- then.
Carol never expected the kind of praise which would so slip under her guard.
She stumbles a bit -- flattered, momentarily moved and his for the taking.
Carol moves to the chair next to him.
She sits very close -- he tenses.
Their faces are close -- she looks at him.
 Her face moving toward him as he is wide-eyed and afraid.
She closes her eyes.
for the kiss.
But now his head moves back and he receives her kiss.
Carol smiles encouragement to him and herself.
But she has already turned away and exits the restaurant.
He finishes dialing.
He is extremely tense, a lump in his throat as he is  trying not to let the anxiety immobilize him.
He hangs up.
His parents want no part of him and he needs help.
As Carol enters with some energy.
Simon struggles with his shirt -- she helps him, inadvertently venting some anger as she does so.
Simon laughs -- as she crosses to the bathroom and begins to prepare a bath.
We are ON Simon settling in for sleep, when instinct or sounds or the faint glow of hope turns him so that he faces the bathroom and we have.
Carol sitting at tub's edge.
 a towel around her
the towel falls and a  better than perfect breast exposed.
and now as Simon looks at the bathing beauty she adjusts her hair
He leaves the bed.
he takes the blotter from the desk set and a pen from his jacket pocket which hangs on the chair and with vigor and faint pain moves to the other side of the bed where he turns on the light and stares at Carol.
Simon's pen moves across the blotter -- Carol sees him earnestly engrossed, a beat of indecision and then shyly but deliberately she lowers the towel.
Melvin sits alone, nursing a drink.
He's been talking to the bartender.
He sits there, just another Joe on a bar stool with his heart breaking.
He's excited -- smiling.
Carol holding a pose for Simon.
He is holding a ballpoint over the back of a hotel desk blotter.
His style cramped by his cast.
He struggles with the cast, and then decides to struggle no more.
Summoning remarkable strength, he rips a piece from the cast, freeing his hand.
He roars ironically, a lion's roar of liberation.
He is back at his center.
The door opens.
Simon enters.
Melvin is having a room service breakfast.
Carol follows him out.
Her arms are filled with the hotel soaps, shampoos, etc.
Melvin reacts.
Carol looks at Melvin.
Simon finishes dialing the phone.
He hangs up, totally satisfied with himself and rips over to Carol and Melvin.
Carol, a load has been lifted.
Melvin stalks out.
The car parked near a phone booth.
Carol walks up to Simon in the car.
She hands him a base ball cap.
Melvin hangs up the phone.
She shakes her head and walks off.
The door opens, revealing them.
Simon notices some of his paintings.
Simon looking at Melvin with some sympathy.
Melvin's two digital clocks are two minutes apart.
He sits in a chair still fully dressed.
A beat then we hear Simon's whispered voice.
As Carol unpacks, she gives gifts to her mother and Spencer.
But clearly something gnaws at her psyche.
As he speeds him out.
She's just broken up with him but she's being nicer than ever.
We enters the room carrying Verdell who strains to be allowed closer to Melvin.
Simon releases him.
He moves for the door.
stops suddenly, jolted.
walks reluctantly into the apartment house.
As Melvin looks at Carol's doorbell with great uncertainty.
the windows open, reading one of Melvin's books.
hesitates.
looks at his watch.
Carol in a cotton wrap-around dress/bathrobe.
She walks to her wide open window and looks over.
The convertible at the curb.
She hesitates.
As Melvin gives up and starts out.
turning as the sudden blast of being BUZZED into Carol's life sounds.
He bolts for the door and enters.
She opens the door.
He reaches her side.
He half turns to leave.
that Beverly, standing near her door down the hallway, has heard at least this last part.
Carol has not ever heard anything like that before.
Melvin, of course, cannot leave well enough alone.
She disappears into her room.
She looks at him then.
Melvin glances at the cracked pattern of Carol's kitchen linoleum and stalls at the door.
They walk quietly.
 Melvin still walking with his usual attention to where he steps.
Melvin walking and though we can see an improvement it is still decidedly strange as he conspicuously avoids stepping on the lines.
Carol sighs.
Melvin looks at her, Embarrassed, self-conscious, His habits making him appear unworthy.
It forces him to half-whisper something he hasn't at all said to himself.
She stands on the precipice of being transported away from the logic which has been her lifeline.
He kisses her.
They separate.
They embrace again.
CAMERA MOVES DOWN to see his foot land squarely on a crack in the side walk without his knowledge.
and the ALMOST in unison begin to walk away FROM CAMERA, Melvin following a path that avoids cracks.
Suddenly the lights of the bakery turn on as it opens for business.
They break.
 Look at each other without a notion of where to take it from here,
They walk to the bakery, Melvin avoiding the cracks.
As they enter the bakery, a WORKER moves toward them to clean the entranceway.
At first only the turrets and rooftops are visible against a torrid sky.
The facades of the Moorish buildings give way to a narrow, twisting street crowded with the polyglot life of a native quarter.
The narrator's voice fade away.
A POLICE OFFICER takes a piece of paper from the typewriter, turns to a microphone, and reads.
An officer BLOWS his whistle several times.
There is pandemonium as native guards begin to round up people.
A police car, full of officers, with SIREN BLARING, screams through the street and stops in the market.
Some try to escape but are caught by the police and loaded into a police wagon.
At a street corner TWO POLICEMEN stop a white CIVILIAN and question him.
The civilian pats his pockets.
He brings out his papers.
The second policeman examines them.
Suddenly the civilian breaks away and starts to run wildly down the street.
JAN and ANNINA BRANDEL, a very young and attractive refugee couple from Bulgaria, watch as the civilian passes.
They've been thrust by circumstances from a simple country life into an unfamiliar and hectic world.
A shot RINGS out, and the man falls to the ground.
The policeman frantically searches the body, but only finds Free French literature.
A EUROPEAN man, sitting at a table nearby, watches the English couple more closely than the scene on the street.
A middle-aged ENGLISH COUPLE sit at a table just off the square, and observe the commotion across the way in front of the Palais de Justice.
The European walks over to the couple.
The police van pulls up.
The rear doors are opened and people stream out.
Suspects are herded out of the van, and into the Palais de Justice.
At the entrance the arrested suspects are led in by the police.
He puts his left arm compassionately around the Englishman, and reaches behind the man with his right hand.
The Englishman seems to be taken aback by this sudden display of concern.
As he pats both his breast and pants pockets he realizes there is something missing.
The plane SWOOPS down past a sign atop a building at the edge of the airport.
As the plane lands a swastika on its tail is clearly visible.
It taxis to a stop as a group of officers march into formation in front of it.
Behind them stand a detail of native soldiers keeping guard.
In the group is CAPTAIN LOUIS RENAULT, a French officer appointed by Vichy as Prefect of Police in Casablanca.
When the plane door opens, the first passenger to step out is a tall, middle-aged, pale German with a smile that seems more the result of a frozen face muscle than a cheerful disposition.
With him are HERR HEINZE, the German consul, CAPTAIN TONELLI, an Italian officer, and LIEUTENANT CASSELLE, Renault's aide.
On any occasion when MAJOR STRASSER is crossed, his expression hardens into iron.
Herr Heinze steps up to him with upraised arm.
They shake hands.
Heinze introduces Strasser to Renault.
Renault salutes.
He is a handsome, middle-aged Frenchman, debonair and gay, but withal a shrewd and alert official.
As they acknowledge each other, Captain Tonelli barges in front of Casselle and salutes Strasser.
But Tonelli gets no further than that as Strasser turns again to Renault.
They walk away from the plane, Heinze following, with Casselle and Tonelli bringing up the rear, engaged in a heated exchange of words.
The neon sign above the door is brightly lit.
Customers arrive and go in through the front door.
Again we isolate on the neon sign.
We follow a group of customers inside.
Rick's is an expensive and chic nightclub which definitely possesses an air of sophistication and intrigue.
The occupants of the room are varied.
There are Europeans in their dinner jackets, their women beautifully begowned and bejeweled.
SAM, a middle-aged Negro, sits on a stool before a small, salmon-colored piano on wheels, playing and singing while accompanied by a small orchestra.
There are Moroccans in silk robes.
Turks wearing fezzes.
Members of the Foreign Legion, distinguished by their kepis.
Two men sit at a table.
His companion seems uninterested in his dilemma.
Sympathy is evidently in short supply in Casablanca.
At another table a very well-dressed WOMAN talks to a MOOR.
She has a bracelet on her wrist.
On to another table where two CONSPIRATORS talk.
He stops abruptly as two German officers walk by.
A REFUGEE and another MAN converse at another table.
On the way to the bar we pass several tables and hear a Babel of foreign tongues.
CARL, the waiter, is a fat, jovial German refugee with spectacles.
He walks, tray in hand, to a private door, over which ABDUL, a large, burly man, stands guard.
Abdul opens the door and Carl goes into the gambling room.
Their is much activity at the various tables.
At one table TWO WOMEN and a MAN play cards.
They glance at another table.
One of them calls to Carl.
Carl laughs.
The overseer walks up to a table with a paper in his hand.
Then we see a drink and a man's hand, but nothing more.
The overseer places a check on the table.
The overseer takes the check.
We now see RICK, sitting at a table alone playing solitary chess.
Rick is an American of indeterminate age.
There is a commotion at the door as people attempt to come into the gambling room.
He nods approval to Abdul.
Then a GERMAN appears in the doorway.
Abdul starts to close the door on the man.
The man tries to push his way through the door as Rick walks up.
Rick looks at the German calmly, takes the card out of his hand, and tears it up.
At this moment UGARTE, a small, thin man with a nervous air, tries to squeeze through the doorway blocked by the German.
He gets through and passes Rick.
The German storms off, tossing the pieces of his card into the air behind him.
Rick meets Ugarte on his way back to his table.
If he were an American, Ugarte would look like a tout.
Fearing to offend Rick, Ugarte laughs.
Ugarte pulls out a chair at Rick's table.
Ugarte sits down.
A waiter comes up to the table with a tray of drinks.
He places one before Ugarte.
He takes an envelope from his pocket and lays it on the table.
Rick appears ready to take them from Ugarte.
Rick takes them.
Ugarte leaves the table just as the waiter comes up.
He starts across the floor.
Ugarte stops as Rick comes up to him.
Ugarte hesitates for a moment.
Rick looks at Ugarte steadily.
Rick leaves the gambling room and goes into the main room.
The cafe is in semi-darkness.
During one of the periods when the spotlight is on the orchestra, Rick slips the letters of transit into the piano.
FERRARI, owner of the Blue Parrot, a competing night spot, comes into the cafe, sits down, and watches Sam.
Then he sees Rick and they smile at each other.
At the end of the number Ferrari goes to the bar to speak to Rick.
Rick and Ferrari walk over to the piano.
Apparently satisfied, Ferrari walks away.
Sacha, who looks at her with lovesick eyes, fills her tumbler.
Back at the bar, YVONNE, an attractive young French woman, sits on a stool drinking brandy.
Rick saunters over and leans on the bar, next to Yvonne.
Yvonne has never taken her eyes off Rick.
Rick looks the check over and tears it up.
He pays no attention to her.
Yvonne turns, looks at Sacha, and extends her glass to him.
She looks at him bitterly, without saying a word.
Yvonne wheels on Rick with drunken fury.
Sacha stands at the curb on the street in front of Rick's and signals for a cab.
He pulls her along toward the door.
Rick and Yvonne approach the waiting cab.
Rick stands and looks up at the revolving beacon light from the airport.
Renault sits at a table on the cafe terrace, watching this evening's performance.
Rick walks over to him.
Rick sits down at the table.
As they talk, Captain Tonelli and Lieutenant Casselle walk by toward the entrance of the cafe.
It intermittently sheds its light on Rick's face.
Casselle talks non-stop and Tonelli tries.
They both stop, salute Renault, and walk into the cafe.
Rick laughs.
Rick and Renault look up when they hear the BUZZ of a plane taking off from the adjacent airfield.
The plane flies directly over their heads.
Rick still looks in the direction of the airport.
His look isn't a happy one.
The three men enter the cafe.
They pass Sam at the piano.
Rick pats Sam on the shoulder.
Rick's eyes react.
Involuntarily, they glance toward the gambling room.
Renault catches the look.
They start upstairs to Rick's office, passing Casselle who is still haranguing Tonelli.
They go inside the office.
Rick opens up the safe in a small, dark room just off the office.
Only Rick's shadow can be seen getting the money out.
Rick moves out of the shadows and into view.
He gives the money to Emil.
Emil departs.
Rick closes the door to the office, then goes over to close the safe.
Renault watches Rick's reaction.
They sit down to discuss the matter in earnest.
Rick makes a face.
Renault stands up.
He stops short as his AIDE enters.
Renault starts to leave.
He hurries away.
Rick smiles cynically.
Renault walks up to Carl.
Renault walks over to one of his officers.
The officer salutes and goes off to speak to the guards.
Renault walks over to Strasser's table as Rick comes down the stairs.
Renault sits down.
Ugarte stands at the roulette table.
Two gendarmes approach him from behind.
The officer nods.
They follow Ugarte to the cashier's window.
Ugarte puts his chips through the window to the CASHIER.
Ugarte looks around.
We move to Strasser's table, who has witnessed the event.
Guards and gendarmes rush in and grab Ugarte.
Rick stands impassively as they drag Ugarte off.
Back to Rick, still standing where he was, as a CUSTOMER walks by.
An air of tense expectancy pervades the room.
Rick comes out to the middle of the floor.
Rick speaks in a very calm voice.
A few customers are on the point of leaving.
Rick glances toward Sam.
Sam nods and begins to play.
Renault, Strasser, and Heinze sit calmly at their table after witnessing the arrest.
Rick walks by.
Rick stops and comes over to their table.
Rick nods to Strasser and Heinze.
Rick sits down with them.
Major Strasser is one of the reasons the Third Reich enjoys the reputation it has today.
Strasser takes a little black book from his pocket and turns to a certain page.
Strasser looks up from the book.
Rick reaches over and takes the book from Strasser's hand.
Rick looks up from the book.
Rick gets up.
Rick walks away toward the gambling room.
A couple comes in the front door.
They are VICTOR LASZLO, the Czech resistance leader, and a very pretty young woman wearing a simple white gown, MISS ILSA LUND.
The HEADWAITER comes up to them.
As the headwaiter takes them to a table they pass by the piano, and the woman looks at Sam.
She is so beautiful, in fact, that people turn to stare.
Sam, with a conscious effort, keeps his eyes on the keyboard as they go past.
After she has gone by Sam steals a look in her direction.
He appears to know this woman.
BERGER, a slight, middle-aged man, observes the couple from a distance.
The headwaiter seats Ilsa.
Strasser and Renault look up at them from their table.
Laszlo takes the chair opposite and surveys the room.
Berger walks up to their table.
Carefully lifting up the stone, he reveals.
He holds it down for their view.
Berger sits down with them.
Ilsa tries to warn him.
Berger, taking the cue, sighs and puts the ring away.
Renault approaches the table from behind Laszlo.
Ilsa's manner is friendly and reserved, her voice low and soft.
He sits down.
Ilsa glances off in Sam's direction.
Renault jumps to his feet as Strasser enters.
Strasser bows and smiles pleasantly.
There is not the slightest recognition from either Ilsa or Laszlo.
Strasser waits to be asked to seat himself.
Laszlo stands.
Strasser looks at Renault sharply, but sees only a noncommittal smile on Renault's face.
Renault and Strasser bow shortly.
Ilsa smiles back at him, but her eyes are still troubled.
On the floor, CORINA strums a guitar and begins her number.
Meanwhile, Laszlo looks about with apparent casualness.
He sees Strasser and Renault whispering together, then notices Berger at the bar.
He rises and goes off.
We see Ilsa's troubled profile.
While Corina sings, Sam gives a worried glance in Ilsa's direction.
Ilsa watches him.
At the bar, Berger sips a drink.
Laszlo walks up and casually takes a place at the bar next to Berger.
Laszlo takes the ring and looks at it.
Berger shakes his head.
Laszlo absorbs the shock quietly.
He stops when Sacha brings the drink to Laszlo.
Corina finishes her song, and the crowd applauds quite enthusiastically.
Ilsa sits alone at her table.
He sits down and is ready to play.
Sam begins to play a number.
He is nervous, waiting for anything.
Sam looks very uncomfortable.
He seems even more scared now.
Of course he can.
Ilsa starts to hum.
Sam begins to play it very softly.
Sam prepares to move the piano away.
For a long moment he just looks at her.
Renault and Laszlo approach the table from the bar.
As he sees Ilsa he stops short.
Rick appears shocked.
Sam stops playing.
Two close-ups reveal Ilsa and Rick seeing each other.
Rick sits down.
Rick and Ilsa look at each other.
Laszlo signals the waiter.
Rick takes the check.
Renault leaves.
Ilsa smiles.
They join Renault at the curb.
Sam now realizes Rick is in a very grim mood.
Sam sits down at the piano and starts to play softly, improvising.
Suddenly he pounds the table and buries his head in his arms.
Then he raises his head, trying to regain control.
He holds his head in his hands.
Rick just stares ahead as orchestra MUSIC slowly joins Sam's playing.
Ilsa fixes flowers at the window while Rick opens champagne.
B) Rick drives a small, open car slowly along the boulevard.
The background scenery changes to a country road as she snuggles close to him and puts her head on his shoulder.
He puts his arm around Ilsa.
C) An excursion boat on the Seine.
Rick and Ilsa stand at the rail of the boat.
They seem to be transported by each other as Ilsa laughs.
A) The Arc de Triomphe from a distance.
She walks over and joins him.
They drink.
Inside a swank Paris cafe, Rick and Ilsa dance.
They appear to be very much in love as the MUSIC plays.
Ilsa flips a coin, then tosses it over to Rick.
They kiss passionately.
A) The rubble of a burned-out, demolished building.
B) German troops crossing a river.
C) Tanks rolling down the road toward Paris.
D) German war planes overhead.
A man sells newspapers to people crowded around him.
There is much excitement.
Rick and Ilsa sit at a table.
They buy a newspaper and begin to read it.
Nearby, a group of frightened French people cluster around a loudspeaker on a wagon.
Rick, at the bar, gets glasses and a bottle of champagne.
He walks over to Ilsa and Sam at the piano.
Ilsa seems unnerved.
There is evidently something on her mind.
Rick pours the champagne.
His manner is wry, but not the bitter wryness we have seen in Casablanca.
Sam looks at his glass.
Rick and Ilsa look at each other, then hurry to the window.
She smiles faintly.
Ilsa looks at him tenderly.
Rick takes her in his arms, and kisses her hungrily.
While they are locked in an embrace they hear the dull BOOM of cannons.
Ilsa reacts to this worriedly.
Ilsa looks at Rick.
He chuckles.
Rick chuckles again.
She can't go on.
She lifts her face to his.
He kisses her gently.
He looks into her eyes, then he does kiss her as though it were going to be the last time.
Her hand falls to the table and knocks over a glass.
It's raining very hard at the train station.
There is a hectic, fevered excitement, evident in the faces of the people that pass by.
Rick appears in the crowd.
He stops and puts his suitcase down and glances at his watch.
He nervously checks his watch again.
Rain pours over his head and shoulders, but he doesn't seem to notice.
Suddenly Sam appears.
Sam pulls an envelope from his pocket.
Rick grabs it, opens it, and stares down at the letter.
Raindrops pour down the letter, smudging the writing.
Sam pulls a stunned, reluctant Rick to the train.
The train starts to move just as he boards.
From the steps he looks off into the distance, then crumbles the letter and tosses it away as the steam from the engine clouds over him.
Close-up of a glass on the table in the cafe.
Rick's hand reaches for it and knocks it over.
We now see Rick's face and he's very drunk.
Sam walks over to the table to pick up the glass and a fallen chair.
Just then the door opens and it's Ilsa.
Rick stares at the doorway.
Ilsa lingers a moment, then comes over to the table.
Her manner is a little uncertain, a little tentative, but with a quiet determination beneath it.
Rick reaches for the bottle, and pours himself another drink.
She sits down in the chair before the empty glass.
Her eyes are searching his face, but there is no expression on it except a cold and impassive one.
He takes a drink.
Ilsa gets up and leaves.
Rick's head slumps over the table.
Strasser sits while Renault attends to some paperwork.
Strasser looks at him.
Laszlo and Ilsa make their way through the jam in the lobby of the Prefecture.
Jan and Annina talk to an officer.
Laszlo and Ilsa enter Renault's office.
Renault bows to them both.
Close-ups of Ilsa, then Laszlo, reveal their disappointment.
Strasser observes their reaction.
Renault rings a buzzer and the door is opened for them.
As Ilsa and Laszlo leave, an OFFICER comes in.
Signor Ferrari turns around.
He's pleased to see Rick.
They shake hands.
He hails a waiter.
He eyes Rick closely.
Rick looks out of the window and sees Ilsa at the linen bazaar, then Laszlo walking toward the cafe.
Rick isn't listening to him.
He looks through the open window in the direction of the linen bazaar.
Rick gets up.
Laszlo reaches the entrance to the cafe as Rick comes out.
He stops and addresses Rick politely.
As he exits, Laszlo looks after him with a puzzled expression.
At the linen stall, Ilsa examines a tablecloth which an Arab vendor is endeavoring to sell.
Rick walks up behind Ilsa.
She looks briefly at Rick, then turns away.
Her manner is politely formal.
Ilsa turns her head away.
She walks away into the cafe as Rick stares after her in stunned disbelief.
Ilsa and Laszlo sit with Ferrari.
Ferrari gets to his feet and walks away.
Ilsa smiles faintly.
She smiles again.
At the bar Ferrari talks to a waiter.
Laszlo glances in the direction of the bazaar.
Ferrari looks shrewdly at Ilsa.
There's a moments pause as this sinks in.
Ilsa's face darkens.
Laszlo quietly observes.
Ferrari bows.
The European picks his pocket.
The tourist laughs.
He dashes off and collides with Carl.
Carl leaves.
As Rick lights a cigarette, Renault shows up.
He pours a drink for Renault.
Renault gets up and strolls away.
At the bar, Yvonne and the German officer place their orders.
She indicates with her hand where she wants them.
A FRENCH OFFICER at the bar makes a remark to Yvonne.
They begin to fight.
Strasser eyes him closely.
He smiles.
Renault lights a cigarette and puffs away.
Carl, bottle in hand, approaches the table of a middle-aged German couple, the LEUCHTAGS.
Carl sits down.
He produces a glass from a back pocket.
They clink glasses and drink.
Annina meets Renault in the hallway as she leaves the Gambling room.
Annina sees Rick and goes to his table.
Rick looks at her.
Annina shakes her head.
Rick pours himself a drink.
Annina is very disturbed.
Rick looks at her closely.
Rick stares off into space.
Rick abruptly rises.
Laszlo looks around.
Rick snaps his fingers for the headwaiter.
Rick walks over to Sam and whispers something to him.
He shakes his head as Rick leaves.
A waiter appears at Ilsa and Laszlo's table.
Jan sits at the roulette table.
He has only three chips left and seems bewildered.
As Rick comes up the croupier speaks to Jan.
Rick stands behind Jan.
Jan looks at Rick, then at the chips in his hand.
Rick and the croupier exchange looks.
The croupier understands what Rick wants him to do.
He spins the wheel.
He pauses, then puts the chips on twenty-two.
The wheel stops spinning.
Carl follows the proceedings, fascinated.
Jan hesitates, then withdraws his hands.
Carl continues to watch.
The wheel spins.
It stops.
Jan rises to go to the cashier.
A CUSTOMER complains to Carl.
Meanwhile, Rick has walked over to the croupier.
Rick smiles slightly and goes toward the door.
Annina runs up to him and hugs him.
He looks over and sees Rick.
At the bar, Carl whispers in Sacha's ear.
He kisses Rick on both cheeks.
Carl pours a brandy for Rick.
Pretending not to do so, Rick glances in Ilsa's direction.
Renault comes up to him.
He smiles and walks away.
Laszlo comes up to Rick.
Rick gets up, as does Laszlo.
Laszlo looks at him, puzzled.
Rick and Laszlo hear MALE VOICES singing downstairs.
Rick stands at the balcony outside his office and watches the Germans below.
At the bar, Renault watches with raised eyebrow.
Laszlo's lips are very tight as he listens to the song.
He starts down the step.
Yvonne, sitting at a table with her German officer, stares down into her drink.
Laszlo speaks to the orchestra.
Laszlo passes the table where Ilsa sits and goes straight to the orchestra.
Members of the orchestra glance toward the steps, toward Rick, who nods to them.
Laszlo and Corina sing as they start to play.
Strasser conducts the German singing in an attempt to drown out the competition.
After a while, Strasser and his officers give up and sit down.
Yvonne jumps up and sings with tears in her eyes.
Ilsa, overcome with emotion, looks proudly at Laszlo, who sings with passion.
Finally the whole cafe stands, singing, their faces aglow.
The song finishes on a high, triumphant note.
Yvonne's face is exalted.
She SHOUTS at the top of her lungs.
She deliberately faces the alcove where the Germans are watching.
Several French officers surround Laszlo, offering him a drink.
Renault thinks a moment, then blows a loud BLAST on his whistle.
The room grows quiet, all eyes turn toward Renault.
An angry murmur starts among the crowd.
People get up and begin to leave.
Rick comes quickly up to Renault.
This display of nerve leaves Rick at a loss.
The croupier comes out of the gambling room and up to Renault.
He hands him a roll of bills.
His manner is abrupt but cordial.
As the cafe empties, Strasser approaches Ilsa.
She looks at him, understanding what he means.
He bows and exits as Laszlo arrives at the table.
They start out of the cafe.
Ilsa and Laszlo walk to their room.
Laszlo switches on the light as they enter.
While Ilsa takes off some jewelry he walks to the window and peers out into the darkness.
Below and across the street, a man stands under an arch.
Laszlo watches him, then draws down the shade.
He crosses to a table, takes a cigarette from a box, and strikes a match.
He lights the cigarette.
Ilsa is now noticeably uncomfortable.
Ilsa walks over to the couch and sits down.
Laszlo turns off the light.
He sits down on the couch next to her.
It grows strained.
A silence falls between them.
Ilsa still cannot look at him.
Ilsa finally turns to look at Laszlo.
He bends down and kisses her cheek.
He kisses her on the cheek and goes out the door.
She stands there for a few seconds, then crosses to look out of the window.
She sees Victor walking down the street and closes the blind again.
The figure in the archway is gone.
Ilsa gets a cloak from the bedroom, and leaves the hotel room.
Carl is busy figuring.
Rick and Carl sit by the bar and look over ledgers.
He looks up at Rick.
Carl laughs.
Ilsa comes over to meet him.
He walks over to the window and Ilsa follows.
Rick walks over to a table and opens a cigarette box, but finds it empty.
There are tears in her eyes now.
He turns away to light a cigarette, then back to Ilsa.
He stops short as he sees Ilsa holding a small revolver in her hand.
It's pointed directly at him.
He moves closer to her.
Her hand drops down, and there are tears in her eyes again.
She turns and walks away from him.
Rick follows her and takes her in his arms.
She is lost in his embrace.
He presses her tight to him.
Rick kisses her passionately.
From his window, Rick watches the revolving beacon light at the airport.
Ilsa sits on the couch.
On a table before her rests a bottle of champagne along with two half-filled glasses.
Rick walks over to her.
Rick sits down with Ilsa.
Ilsa puts her head on Rick's shoulder.
She snuggles closer to Rick.
They run inside the entryway.
The headlights of a speeding police car sweep toward them.
The lights move past them.
They flatten themselves against a wall to avoid detection.
Laszlo and Carl make their way through the darkness toward a side entrance of Rick's.
Laszlo and Carl enter and cross toward the bar, out of breath from their exertion.
Carl goes behind the bar.
Rick and Ilsa hear voices below.
Rick crosses to the door.
He opens it just enough to see below, and turns off the light.
Ilsa stands just in back of him.
She makes a move as if to go out to the balcony but Rick's pushes her back.
She withdraws behind the door.
Rick walks out to the balcony railing.
Rick sees Carl attending to Laszlo, who appears to be injured.
Both Carl and Laszlo look up.
Carl looks up wonderingly, then starts toward the stairway.
Carl climbs the stairs.
Carl enters Rick's apartment and sees Ilsa.
He looks at Rick and says nothing.
Rick walks to the bar, picks up a bottle, and pours a drink.
Laszlo takes a drink.
Rick reaches in his jacket for his cigarette case, opens it, and takes out a cigarette.
Rick lights his cigarette.
He looks away for a moment.
Suddenly there is a CRASH at the door of the cafe, followed by the forced entry of several gendarmes.
A French officer walks in and addresses Laszlo.
Laszlo looks for a moment at Rick, then in dignified silence crosses to the officer.
Together they walk toward the door.
Rick's eyes follow them, but his expression reveals nothing of his feelings.
They're interrupted by an orderly.
Renault hands some forms to the orderly, who then exits, and the conversation continues.
Renault sits at his desk and smokes while Rick nervously fingers his hat.
Renault gets out of his chair and crosses to the front of his desk.
Renault retrieves a fresh cigarette from a box on his desk.
Renault chain-lights his new cigarette with the old one.
Renault sits back down in his chair.
Rick stares at the floor, then looks back up at Renault.
Renault presses a button on his desk, triggering a BUZZER.
The door to Renault's office opens.
Rick rises to go.
A waiter brings tea to Rick and Ferrari, who sit alone at a table in a secluded nook off the main room.
Ferrari pours a cup for Rick, who takes a sip.
Rick gets up, followed by Ferrari.
They shake hands to seal the deal.
He walks to the door, then stops and turns around.
Rick leaves.
Ferrari picks up a fly swatter from the table and swats at a fly.
A car pulls quickly to a stop just outside the cafe.
On the door a huge placard reads.
Renault looks around the empty cafe.
Rick points at his breast pocket.
They hear the CRUNCH of tires as a car pull up.
Renault walks up the stairs to Rick's office.
Ilsa quickly walks toward the entrance.
Laszlo pays the cab driver.
Ilsa pauses and looks at Rick, unsure for a moment.
Laszlo comes in and closes the door behind himself.
Renault opens the office door and peers down at the proceedings.
They all walk towards the bar.
Laszlo deposits his hat on a a nearby table.
He takes out the letters.
He hands them to Laszlo, who takes them gratefully.
All three hear footsteps and turn to see Renault walking towards them from the bottom of the stairs.
Ilsa and Laszlo are both caught completely off guard.
Horror is in Ilsa's eyes.
Renault takes the letters.
They turn towards Rick, bewildered.
Obviously the situation delights Renault.
He smiles as he turns toward Rick.
Suddenly the smile fades.
In Rick's hand is a gun, which he levels at Renault.
Renault halts for a moment and studies Rick.
He walks to a table and sits.
As Renault picks up the phone and dials, Rick takes back the letters.
Strasser is on the phone.
He hangs up the receiver and presses a BUZZER on his desk.
An officer quickly enters.
He hangs up the receiver and, grabbing for his cap, hurriedly exits.
The entire airport is surrounded by a heavy fog.
The outline of the transport plane is barely visible.
On the airfield a transport plane is being readied.
A uniformed ORDERLY uses a telephone near the hangar door.
He hangs up and moves to a car that has just pulled up outside the hangar.
Renault gets out while the orderly stands at attention.
He's closely followed by Rick, right hand in the pocket of his trench coat, covering Renault with a gun.
Laszlo and Ilsa emerge from the rear of the car.
Laszlo and take care of his luggage.
The orderly escorts Laszlo off in the direction of the plane.
Rick takes the letters of transit out of his pocket and hands them to Renault, who turns and walks toward the hangar.
Renault stops dead in his tracks, and turns around.
Both Ilsa and Renault look at Rick with astonishment.
Rick's intention suddenly dawns on Ilsa.
Renault countersigns the papers.
Ilsa's eyes well up with tears.
Rick puts his hand to her chin and raises her face to meet his own.
Major Strasser drives at break-neck speed towards the airport.
He HONKS his horn furiously.
Laszlo returns.
Rick walks into the hangar and Renault hands him the letters.
He walks back out to Laszlo.
Rick hands the letters to Laszlo.
Laszlo extends his hand to Rick, who grasps it firmly.
On the airfield the airplane engine TURNS OVER and the propellers start turning.
They all turn to see the plane readying for take-off.
Ilsa looks at Rick and he returns her stare with a blank expression.
He then glances at Laszlo, as does Ilsa.
Then Laszlo breaks the silence.
Rick watches as Ilsa and Laszlo walk very deliberately towards the plane.
Rick puts a cigarette in his mouth.
The door to the plane is closed by an attendant and it slowly taxies down the field.
Suddenly a speeding car comes to a stop outside the hangar.
Strasser alights from the car and runs toward Renault.
Renault nods toward the field.
Strasser turns to see the plane taxiing towards the runway.
Strasser looks briefly at Rick, then makes a step towards the telephone just inside the hangar door.
His eyes dart towards the telephone.
Strasser stops in his tracks, looks at Rick, and sees that he is armed.
Strasser watches the plane in agony.
He runs toward it and desperately grabs the receiver.
Strasser, one hand holding the receiver, pulls out a pistol with the other hand, and SHOOTS quickly at Rick.
The bullet misses its mark.
Rick now SHOOTS at Strasser, who crumples to the ground.
A police car SPEEDS in and comes to a stop near Renault.
Four gendarmes hurriedly jump out.
In the distance the plane turns onto the runway.
The gendarmes run to Renault.
The first one hurriedly salutes him.
Renault pauses and looks at Rick.
Rick returns Renault's gaze with expressionless eyes.
As he pours the water into a glass, Renault sees the Vichy label and quickly DROPS the bottle into a trash basket which he then KICKS over.
He walks over and stands beside Rick.
They both watch the plane take off, maintaining their gaze until it disappears into the clouds.
Rick and Louis slowly walk away from the hangar toward the runway.
The two walk off together into the night.
SYLVIE GAUDET, French, attractive, blonde, in her early thirties, comes from the railing of the sun deck to join REGGIE and JEAN-LOUIS.
JEAN-LOUIS scampers off, content to have gotten off so lightly.
SYLVIE notices REGGIE's lunch which consists of cold chicken, potato salad, rolls and butter, wine and coffee.
REGGIE picks up a chicken leg and starts off.
SYLVIE regards the devastated table before following.
A magnificent indoor, glass-enclosed pool, the vista of snow- covered mountains seen through the ceiling-high windows beyond.
REGGIE and SYLVIE are passing through, their conversation continuing.
An open balcony running around two sides of the pool, sun- worshippers lying in deck-chairs.
REGGIE and SYLVIE appear, their conversation continuing.
She stops as she is aware of a weird figure hovering over her.
A strange, grotesque knitted mask that completely covers the face except for eyes, nose and mouth.
CAMERA PANS down to include JEAN-LOUIS, his hand held firmly by the man in the mask.
Including REGGIE, MAN, SYLVIE and JEAN-LOUIS.
Eyeing one, then the other, SYLVIE sizes up the situation and rises.
SYLVIE and JEAN-LOUIS start off, but not before the boy squirts PETER with his pistol.
The Arc de Triomphe at the far end of the Avenue.
CAMERA PANS to pick up a TAXI as it pulls up before the handsome building.
Inside are REGGIE, SYLVIE and JEAN-LOUIS.
As REGGIE climbs out and the DRIVER begins unloading her suitcases.
JEAN-LOUIS sticks his head out of the taxi window.
REGGIE looks at SYLVIE, surprised.
REGGIE walks toward the house with the driver, who carries her cases.
She presses the button that electrically opens the front door.
As the elevator rises REGGIE gets out, followed by the driver.
He puts down the bags in front of the apartment door.
The driver leaves.
Sighing, she digs out her keys and starts to fit it into the lock.
Now, CAMERA FOLLOWING, she goes into the Salon.
It is also empty -- stripped bare.
There are squares of the wall's original color where paintings used to hang, the hooks still in the wall.
She rushes now, going into the bedroom, CAMERA FOLLOWING crazily, lurching and careening behind her.
The bedroom, too, is empty.
She goes to the built-in wardrobe closets and throws open all the doors.
Only some hangers remain.
She pulls open the drawers -- nothing.
Including REGGIE, in a state of near-shock.
We see a large metal drawer being opened and an all-too- familiar shape outlined under a damp sheet of muslin.
Looking straight down at the tops of REGGIE's, GRANDPIERRE's and an ATTENDANT's head and smack into the open drawer.
GRANDPIERRE lifts a corner of the sheet at the bottom and reveals a bare foot with a ticket tied to its big toe.
He stoops to read it.
Satisfied, he recovers the foot, then moves to the other end to uncover the head.
As the sheet starts to lift.
She closes her eyes for a moment, then looks again.
She nods.
She nods again.
GRANDPIERRE moves into the SHOT.
GRANDPIERRE nods as he turns to the unseen ATTENDANT.
CAMERA suddenly moves as the 'drawer' is slid back into the wall.
BLACKNESS comes with a loud clang and continues while the echo dies.
CLOSE SHOT -- DESK DRAWER (FROM ABOVE) as it is pulled open.
A photograph of Charles Lampert lies face up in the drawer.
Including GRANDPIERRE sitting behind his desk, and REGGIE, sitting across from him.
The office is as bare as most policemen's offices.
She starts to rummage through her bag.
But she pulls a package of nuts out of her bag.
She begins separating the shells with her thumb nail and eating the nuts, depositing the shells in the ashtray.
GRANDPIERRE watches this for an instant.
GRANDPIERRE sighs, puts down his pencil and pushes a button on the desk.
He removes a cigar from his desk and inserts it into his mouth.
He rips the cigar out of his mouth and slams it back into the drawer, closing it fiercely.
The door opens and the POLICEMAN enters again, this time carrying a wicker basket which he deposits on GRANDPIERRE's desk, and leaves.
GRANDPIERRE peers into the basket.
He begins to take them out, placing them on the desk, identifying each item as he does.
GRANDPIERRE hands her the letter and watches her closely as she reads it.
He slides a sheet of paper and pen across to her, then starts to put the things back into the basket while he speaks.
He reaches into the desk drawer and pulls out a passport which he hands to her.
The cover indicates that it is Swiss.
REGGIE's hand opens it to a picture of a man -- the man we saw in GRANDPIERRE's photo.
He hands her another passport.
The cover is American.
He hands her, one at a time, two more passports.
His eyes still lowered.
CAMERA PANS DOWN to feature his hands -- he is methodically trimming his nails with a small clipper.
The front DOOR of the Chapel is heard opening and a shaft of daylight streams in.
The short, heavy-set figure of a MAN is outlined against the bright outdoor light.
He stands for a moment, then closes the door after him.
LEOPOLD GIDEON, short-sighted, bald, in his middle forties, glances around nervously, like a barnyard bird.
Then he walks down one of the side aisles of the Chapel.
As he watches GIDEON.
As she watches him.
GIDEON arrives at the coffin.
He stops, looks down at LAMPERT's body for a moment.
Then, suddenly, in rapid succession, he sneezes six times.
He takes a small bottle from his pocket, shakes a pill from it and swallows it dry.
He turns and walks back up the aisle, looking for a place to sit.
He comes face to face with GRANDPIERRE, stops, turns to sit somewhere else.
Again, the sound of the DOOR opening interrupts them.
They turn to look.
Again the figure of a MAN is outlined in silhouette against the outside brightness.
He wears a velvet-corduroy suit, string tie and a bright yellow flower in his lapel.
A bulldurham tag hangs from his outside breast pocket, dangling from its string.
He starts down the aisle toward the bier, CAMERA LEADING him, and we notice his unsteady gait.
He turns to look at the others present.
MOVING down the aisle.
GRANDPIERRE's face, then GIDEON's, then REGGIE's and SYLVIE's -- all staring at CAMERA.
As TEX arrives.
He stands staring at LAMPERT's body, swaying on his feet until he reaches out and grabs the side of the coffin to steady himself.
Then he takes the flower from his lapel and throws it into the open box.
SYLVIE points to REGGIE.
Unruffled, TEX starts over.
addressing REGGIE this time.
She pulls out the letter and starts to read it.
It bears the Great Seal as a letterhead and the typed message reads:
SYLVIE has been reading over REGGIE's shoulder.
The elevator door closes on them.
REGGIE reacts to this and starts down the hall, finally stopping at the door.
The office is empty, the typewriter on the secretary's desk is covered with its plastic shroud.
REGGIE enters, looks for somebody, notices that the door to the private office is slightly ajar.
BARTHOLOMEW comes to the door and looks in.
He is a pale grey-haired man who looks, on first examination, older than his forty-odd years.
Sickly would be the word that describes him best -- pallid, consumptive-looking.
He wears heavy tortoise-framed glasses which fall down his nose and cause him to push them back in place every so often with a quick automatic motion.
He motions for her to enter, standing aside to let her do so.
A small cubicle -- there is a silver-framed photo of three kids on the desk.
A can of lighter fluid stands open on the desk and a crumpled hankie beside it.
He works at a stain on his necktie with lighter fluid and hankie.
He looks up at her, laughs silently, then goes back to his tie.
He puts away the lighter fluid in a desk drawer, smells the hankie, passes on it, then sticks it in his pocket.
He opens another drawer and pulls out various sandwiches wrapped in waxpaper, a salt and pepper shaker, a tube of mustard, a bottle of red wine and two Dixie cups.
He uncorks the wine, fills a cup and begins eating.
He hands her a sandwich and fills a wine-cup for her.
He reaches back into the drawer and pulls out a glass which he gives her.
FOUR MEN, all in army uniform, sitting behind a table.
The glass is held over the first, magnifying the face.
It's a photo of a young CHARLES LAMPERT.
The glass and CAMERA move to the fourth face -- a young.
REGGIE nods.
He writes something on a pad of paper and tears it off, handing it to her.
A ROAR from the CHILDREN.
REGGIE and PETER turn toward the stage.
PUNCH and JUDY are arguing loudly.
PUNCH and JUDY are batting each other on the head.
Finally, JUDY knocks Punch out of sight and a PUPPET wearing a three-cornered hat appears.
Wearing a hat, he stands off in the background, watching.
JUDY and the POLICEMAN are batting one another.
PUNCH's head appears on the other side of the stage, says something, then ducks out.
Charles was mixed up in something terrible.
JUDY has gotten the upper hand is now batting the POLICEMAN's brains out.
CLOSE SHOT -- GRANDPIERRE as he winces.
He stands on the dance floor in front of a five piece Latin dance band, a spotlight on him, wearing his professional smile as he speaks into a mike.
At their table.
REGGIE is dressed in a lovely Givenchy dress.
As REGGIE hauls off and kicks GIDEON full in the shin.
He stiffens as the pain registers.
Instead of shouting he merely closes his eyes.
Including REGGIE and GIDEON and PETER standing by, as well as some spectators.
PETER comes quickly forward.
REGGIE realizes that GIDEON no longer offers any resistance.
She steps back, leaving GIDEON holding the orange, foolishly, under his chin, his eyes still closed.
REGGIE stares at him for a moment.
Slowly, his eyes open and tears stream from them, rolling down his cheeks.
He speaks while holding the orange.
GIDEON turns to the woman behind him and the game resumes.
She realizes she has not pushed the button which takes her coin and allows the party at the other end to hear her voice.
TEX takes a book of matches from his pocket.
He strikes a match and lights his cigarette, holding the burning match in his hand afterward.
TEX, without a word, throws the still-lit match into the booth, onto REGGIE's lap.
She beats it out frantically.
He lights another match and reaches out toward her hair with it.
She shrinks back.
Then he throws it into her lap.
As he continues to speak he punctuates each phrase or so with another lit match.
REGGIE is too busy beating them out to do anything else.
As she frantically beats out the matches, her eyes on her work.
She notices her hand is shaking.
She reaches back into her bag, removes a piece of candy, puts it into her mouth and leans her head back against the wall, closing her eyes.
Suddenly the door opens and REGGIE shrieks -- but this time it is PETER.
REGGIE and PETER enter the deserted lobby.
She goes to the desk, followed by PETER, where the NIGHT CLERK greets them sleepily.
They go to the elevator where he opens the door for her.
As REGGIE and PETER enter the small cage.
It is somewhat cramped, forcing them to stand close together.
The elevator stops.
He reaches across her and opens the door.
She stops as she sees something.
Instead of a human hand there is a twin-pronged metal one.
SCOBIE sees where REGGIE is staring; looks down at it himself, then lunges at her, raising the hand to strike.
The hand is starting to come down.
REGGIE, moving quickly, turns and flies out.
As REGGIE runs out, slamming the door after her, the metal hand crashes against the wooden panel inside the door and splinters through it, visible on this side now.
Petrified with fear, REGGIE can only stare dumbly at the protruding claw.
As PETER comes running up to her.
He sees the metal hand.
Then, using all his weight, he slams the door open as far as it will go, making sure to hold it that way as he steps in.
Inside, PETER pulls back the door and slugs the startled SCOBIE full on the jaw.
His head bangs against the wall but he manages to raise a foot and push PETER violently away, sending him sprawling back, toppling across the bed and over, head first, onto the floor on the other side, where he disappears.
Hurrying, SCOBIE puts his foot against the door and pushes it away, ripping his metal hand free.
He then rushes to the open window and climbs out.
REGGIE waits anxiously.
When she hears nothing, she gingerly looks into the room.
PETER goes, unsteady on his feet, to the window and looks out.
He then turns back.
He climbs out.
Outside the window to REGGIE's room is a small, false balcony, consisting mostly of railing, with barely enough room between it and the building's facade for a man to stand.
PETER appears and looks down over the railing.
SHOOTING STRAIGHT DOWN; there is no one on the street and it is too far to jump.
He now looks around.
REGGIE's is the last such balcony on one side, but there are two or three on the other.
PETER climbs over the railing and, holding on to it with one hand, reaches for the railing on the next balcony.
As it stretches for the railing; it is several inches short of touching it.
As he straightens up and prepares to jump.
From the GROUND.
PETER, high above, jumps to the next balcony.
As he climbs over the railing of the second balcony.
He sees a light coming through the window and looks in.
From the GROUND as PETER jumps to the next balcony.
As he climbs over the rail to the third balcony.
There is a light coming from this window, too.
PETER looks in.
Inside the room are GIDEON, TEX, and SCOBIE in the midst of a heated discussion.
SCOBIE turns and storms out of the door, slamming it.
There is a KNOCK at the door.
REGGIE unlocks the door and opens it.
PETER enters and she closes the door again.
PETER is silent for a moment.
She falls in his arms to be comforted.
He takes out his handkerchief and dries her eyes.
The phone rings.
REGGIE answers it.
SCOBIE holds the receiver in his metal hand.
REGGIE's back is turned to PETER so he can't see her face.
He watches her.
She shakes her head.
He hangs up.
Slowly, REGGIE lowers the 'phone from her ear and hangs it up.
She hesitates a moment.
As PETER (now called DYLE) leaves REGGIE's room and closes the door.
He pauses for a moment, listening, hears nothing, then bends down and starts pulling at a loose thread in one of his socks.
As usual, the thread unravels -- and unravels -- and unravels some more until it seems that the entire sock has come unknit.
Now, taking the long thread, he bends down near the door and, taking his tie-pin, attaches one end of the thread to the bottom of REGGIE's door.
He then runs the thread along the floor to his door (next door) and works it underneath.
REGGIE is on the phone.
BARTHOLOMEW on the phone.
He is silent for a moment, his face troubled.
BARTHOLOMEW looks at her for a moment, then glances around; his attention is drawn inside the doorway.
Almost as far as the eye can see, row upon row of beef sides, hung on hooks.
As REGGIE looks at the hanging beef.
REGGIE and BARTHOLOMEW sit at the table.
BARTHOLOMEW pulls out a package and she takes one, looks at it and rips off the filter tip.
He winces.
She puts the other end in her mouth, then picks up the matches and lights it.
REGGIE takes another cigarette from his pack, rips off the filter (he winces again) and puts it into her mouth.
He points to the cigarette she just lit, still practically brand-new in the ashtray.
She hands over the newer one to BARTHOLOMEW, who sadly examines its mutilated end while REGGIE returns to the first cigarette.
The WAITER returns with the coffee and onion soup.
DYLE leaves the hotel and turns into the Place.
A moment later, REGGIE comes cautiously from the hotel.
First comes DYLE, passing a sidewalk cafe on the corner, then the SANDWICH-MAN and REGGIE.
A moment later, DYLE passes a GIRL painting a canvas, her easel set up in the middle of the sidewalk.
He stops when he has passed her and turns to look at her work.
REGGIE, not knowing what to do, and afraid she will be seen by DYLE, who is now looking her way, spins and sits at the sidewalk cafe's nearest table, her back to DYLE.
It is already occupied by a middle-aged.
The TOURIST, complete with camera, beret and guide book, looks up from his coffee, surprised.
He stares at REGGIE and she stares back.
He smiles back emptily, not knowing what to make of her.
REGGIE turns to look at DYLE.
He has made his judgment of the painting and now moves on.
The TOURIST has finally found the courage to speak.
As he opens his mouth to make a sound, REGGIE, her eyes on DYLE, rises quickly from the table and goes, leaving a very confused TOURIST with his mouth open.
He blinks, then leaves some money on the table and starts after her.
REGGIE following DYLE.
Now we see that the TOURIST, in turn, is following her.
She continues after DYLE.
The TOURIST hesitates, then continues after her.
He goes to the curb and starts to step off, attempting to cross the Rue Danton, but finds the light against him.
He turns back in REGGIE's direction.
Realizing she has to do something before DYLE spots her, she turns and takes the TOURIST's arm and starts walking with him back toward the cafe.
She leaves him standing there, more confused than ever, as she starts after DYLE again.
DYLE has hopped on the back of the bus as it pulls away.
REGGIE hurries across the street, hailing a taxi.
DYLE enters.
DYLE walks to one of several windows.
A sign over it reading.
REGGIE comes down the stairs.
Suddenly she stops.
A confused look on her face.
As his turn comes, he addresses the CLERK.
Watching.
The CLERK takes out a bundle of letters and quickly sorts through it.
DYLE stops in his tracks, pondering what to do.
CAMERA DOLLIES across an empty cabin to discover REGGIE in the third one, on the phone.
REGGIE on the phone.
DYLE on the phone.
She opens the door of the cabin and starts out.
As REGGIE steps out of her cabin and starts looking in the others.
They are all occupied except one and she looks inside it.
The receiver hangs by its cord, swinging back and forth.
As she looks at it, confused.
DYLE and SCOBIE stand together, waiting for the elevator, SCOBIE clearly holding a gun in the pocket of his raincoat.
The self-service elevator doors open, one or two PASSENGERS come out and DYLE and SCOBIE enter.
A young GIRL starts in after them.
He reaches out and presses the top button with his metal hand.
The doors close.
As SCOBIE follows DYLE out of the elevator.
SCOBIE looks around -- there is an open door at the end of a short hall.
He and DYLE go to it, CAMERA FOLLOWING.
Through the door, which SCOBIE closes behind them, is a flight of stairs, leading up to a second floor.
DYLE yawns wide.
DYLE gets to his feet and starts up the stairs, followed by SCOBIE.
DYLE stops at the door.
DYLE opens the door.
The stairs continue up.
A spectacular view of the Paris rooftops and the city lights beyond.
DYLE and SCOBIE come out onto a level portion of roof.
On the street side, the roof angles down abruptly into a steep, slate-covered pitch, broken only by two widely separated oval-shaped dormer windows.
DYLE turns and looks -- there is nothing behind him but a sheer drop to the street.
Moving quickly, DYLE lashes out and hacks SCOBIE's gun hand with the side of his palm and the gun falls to the roof.
Following through, DYLE punches the large man full in the jaw, but instead of falling, SCOBIE wraps his arm around DYLE, holding on tightly until his head clears.
Then, to his amazement, DYLE is lifted into the air and, unable to break the bear-hold, carried toward the edge of the roof.
Working his arms between their two bodies, DYLE suddenly flails them out with all his strength and the hold is broken, but at the price of his coat and the flesh on his back as SCOBIE's metal claw rips through both, a wound extending from the center of DYLE's back to his shoulder.
Both men look around for the gun, spot it simultaneously and leap for it, both landing short of the mark.
Now they grapple with one another, each trying to break free and reach for the gun.
Two hands, one real, one metal, inch toward the gun.
The battle is going to SCOBIE whose weight and strength are beginning to tire DYLE, who is now on his back, trying to stop SCOBIE from crawling over him.
He has the large man by both lapels of the raincoat in a last-ditch effort to hold him.
But SCOBIE, his face horribly distorted from the strain, continues to inch forward toward the gun.
Suddenly, DYLE releases his hold.
With nothing restraining him, SCOBIE lurches forward, tumbling past the gun, his momentum carrying him onto the sloping part of the roof, where he begins sliding down.
SCOBIE beats wildly at the the slate with his claw, trying to gouge a grip.
As it slides across the slate, making a hideous scratching sound and causing sparks to fly.
As he slides over the edge and disappears.
As he watches, hypnotized.
There appears to be no sign of SCOBIE.
Then CAMERA ZOOMS IN FOR A TIGHT CLOSE SHOT OF SCOBIE'S metal hand, gripping the rain gutter at the very edge.
Having seen the claw, he rises and walks to the very edge of the level part of the roof.
DYLE turns and leaves going down the stairs.
DYLE leaves the elevator and goes to his own door.
The MANAGER eyes him coldly.
She leads him into her room.
As REGGIE and DYLE enter from his room.
She leads him to the bed.
She wets the cotton with disinfectant and begins cleaning the wound.
He winces.
She continues working on his back, cleaning it, then bandaging it while they talk.
He goes to the bed.
He sits.
She starts kissing him on the neck, on the chin, on the cheek.
She kisses him on the mouth.
The phone rings.
He tries to talk as she continues kissing him.
The phone continues to ring and she continues to kiss him.
Finally, REGGIE reaches out to the bedstand and takes the phone off the hook.
She brings the receiver up to their mouths and mumbles into it.
TEX speaks into the phone.
She covers the phone and turns to DYLE in alarm.
TEX lifts JEAN-LOUIS and puts him down on SCOBIE's other knee.
A KNOCK at the door.
GIDEON goes to open it.
REGGIE and DYLE enter.
She sees JEAN-LOUIS and TEX's gun.
A pause as the THREE MEN look at one another.
The THREE MEN look at one another unhappily.
He takes DYLE's key and gives DYLE his.
GIDEON goes to REGGIE, takes her key and gives her his own.
Including TEX, busy going through the bureau.
He looks up, then joins GIDEON.
GIDEON empties the contents of the bag on the table, then starts examining the various items.
He opens the wallet.
GIDEON has put the wallet aside and now picks up the letter, removing it from the envelope and reading it.
A broad grin from TEX.
They continue going through the items from the bag.
TEX takes the list, examines it, then folds it and puts it in his pocket.
They finish with the items from the bag.
She hangs up and turns to JEAN-LOUIS.
REGGIE looks to where JEAN-LOUIS is pointing -- to the top of the high armoire.
Taking one of the straight chairs to the armoire, she stands on it.
Although she is still not high enough to see anything, by standing on tip-toes she is able to reach with her hand over the top and grope around blindly.
REGGIE has finally managed to pull down the case -- a rectangular black bag about the size and shape of a trombone case.
As he climbs off the chair, JEAN-LOUIS suddenly runs to the door, unbolts it and runs into the hall, CAMERA PANNING with him.
As JEAN-LOUIS runs out into the hall, shouting.
DYLE is the first one to appear, coming out of GIDEON's room.
TEX has also appeared from REGGIE's room, followed by GIDEON.
The THREE MEN rush by JEAN-LOUIS and squeeze simultaneously into SCOBIE's room.
As DYLE, TEX and GIDEON enter, REGGIE is placing the little straight black chair to its original position.
As they stare at the case, surprised and just a little embarrassed.
Slowly TEX lowers the lid.
The MEN avoid looking at one another.
Including REGGIE and JEAN-LOUIS by the door.
The MEN look at one another.
The THREE MEN hurry past REGGIE and JEAN-LOUIS and out of the door.
DYLE, TEX, and GIDEON, followed by REGGIE and JEAN-LOUIS cross the hall to DYLE's room.
DYLE turns the key which is still in the door.
He enters, followed by the others.
DYLE, TEX and GIDEON stand in the center of the room, looking around.
REGGIE and JEAN-LOUIS wait in the open doorway.
The room looks like a cyclone hit the place, but there is no sign of SCOBIE.
The sound of running water can be heard coming from behind the closed door to the bathroom and DYLE is the first to notice the water beginning to leak out from under the door.
SCOBIE, still dressed in his raincoat, lies face up, his head submerged in the filled tub, the water now pouring over the edge.
His face is distorted.
DYLE's hand appears and turns off the water.
DYLE, TEX and GIDEON staring at CAMERA.
CLOSE SHOT -- SCOBIE.
CAMERA WHIRLS for a TIGHT CLOSE SHOT of a MAID, her eyes widening as the realization that the man is dead strikes her.
Then she screams.
CLOSE SHOT -- GRANDPIERRE.
GRANDPIERRE raps for silence on his desk.
During the pause, he looks into each face in turn.
REGGIE and DYLE walking along the quai, next to the Seine.
They have passed an ice-cream wagon on the corner of the Pont au Double.
DYLE shrugs.
She offers him her cone, thrusting it forward with enough force to dislodge the ice-cream.
It lands right next to his lapel, over his outside breast pocket.
Including the Cathedral of NOTRE DAME in the background.
As REGGIE and DYLE step from the elevator.
He goes into his room and she goes into hers.
She enters, fixes her hair in the mirror, then goes to the door connecting her room with DYLE's.
She unlocks it, tries to open it, but finds it locked.
Disappointed, she knocks.
He calls to her through the closed door as he empties his pockets.
He sits down to take off his shoes, but is interrupted by the sound of REGGIE screaming.
He races for the connecting door, pulls back the bolt and rushes in.
As DYLE enters.
He wheels as the door is slammed and REGGIE, who had been standing behind it, locks it and pockets the key.
He goes to the door leading to the hall and finds that locked as well.
She smiles at him.
DYLE looks at her, then sits down and starts to remove his shoes.
Testing the water with his hand, he now steps in fully dressed.
REGGIE can't believe her eyes.
She goes to the open door for a closer look.
As he takes out his handkerchief and rinses it.
He opens his coat and reads a label inside.
He flicks a little water in her face, then takes the nail- brush and scrubs his watch and watch-band.
He holds up his wrist so she can see the watch.
He begins unbuttoning his suit.
She turns and leaves, slamming the door after her.
The PHONE rings and she answers it.
CLOSE SHOT -- REGGIE on the phone, looking like the rug has been pulled out from under her.
REGGIE slowly lowers the phone to its cradle, a worried expression on her face.
Then the bathroom door opens and DYLE appears dressed in a large bath towel.
She shakes her head.
The large motor launch, moving along the river, gaily ablaze with lights.
At a table for two by the rail, the city slowly passing in the b.g.
They walk back to the table, where a WAITER is busy putting food on it, mostly on REGGIE's side.
REGGIE reacts in surprise.
She looks at him with happy amazement, then pushes her plate away.
The lights go out.
A searchlight near the boat's bridge has gone on and now begins sweeping the river banks.
On benches by the water's edge, lovers are surprised by the bright light which suddenly and without warning discovers them in various attitudes of mutual affection.
Some are embarrassed, some are amused and some (the most intimate) damn annoyed.
Who, like everyone else, leave the table and stand together at the rail watching.
She rises on tip-toes and kisses him gently; his only reaction is to look at her.
She kisses him again.
He responds a little better.
She starts to kiss him again, but he stops her.
He hangs up, swings his feet out of bed and spears his slippers, reaching for his robe at the same time.
Then he shuffles sleepily to the door.
As GIDEON comes out of his room and goes to the elevator.
The cage is there.
He opens the door and enters.
GIDEON closes the sliding grill and presses a button.
The cage starts down.
GIDEON begins sneezing.
Suddenly the elevator stops between floors and the lights go out.
Just as suddenly the lights go back on and the elevator starts moving down again.
GIDEON shakes his head and leans back, whistling again.
The cage comes to his floor and starts past it.
Seeing this, GIDEON looks confused.
The NIGHT PORTER is asleep behind the desk.
The elevator, GIDEON inside, keeps coming down.
It passes the lobby level and keeps right on going, toward the basement.
The elevator passes out of sight, still going down.
There is a silence as the motor stops, and then a series of sneezes that ends with a terrifying shriek.
The NIGHT PORTER, rudely awakened, runs to the elevator shaft, his shoes squeaking horribly.
He looks up, sees nothing, then looks down.
He presses the call button and the motor starts.
An instant later the cage appears and stops.
The NIGHT PORTER opens the gate, pulls back the grill and the CAMERA RUSHES PAST him to pick up GIDEON.
His body is sitting on the floor of the cage, its grotesque sprawling attitude resembling a puppet's with its strings cut.
Except that GIDEON has no strings to cut -- only a throat.
From ear to ear.
CLOSE SHOT -- GRANDPIERRE.
He is now doubly apoplectic.
CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal REGGIE and ADAM, in their bathrobes.
REGGIE shrugs.
REGGIE and ADAM exchange looks.
GRANDPIERRE turns and leaves.
REGGIE and ADAM start down the hall toward their own rooms.
ADAM, before hanging up, reflects on TEX's words, then looks behind him.
Smiling softly, he hangs up the phone and starts for REGGIE's door.
REGGIE slips back into her robe and goes to the connecting door.
She undoes the bolt and opens the door.
ADAM enters.
He takes the bag to the bed where he dumps out the contents.
As ADAM begins to examine the items one by one.
He takes it out of the envelope and takes out his glasses before reading it.
He hands her the glasses and she looks through them.
He shakes some powder into his hand and tastes it.
REGGIE watches expectantly.
The ultra-modern glass and concrete structure behind the Ecole Militaire.
SEVERAL DELEGATES identified by little plaques in front of them listing their respective nations, and their AIDES, sit around the large table.
They are all wearing earphones.
The ITALIAN DELEGATE is speaking.
SYLVIE jumps up and rushes next door into her booth, shutting the door after her.
The BRITISH DELEGATE rises to speak, continuing through the next scene.
He hands her a paper.
The one GRANDPIERRE gave REGGIE.
It has been torn in half and scotch-taped back together.
She turns back to the conference, flips a switch and starts speaking into her headset.
From REGGIE'S and ADAM'S ANGLE.
All the DELEGATES and their AIDES suddenly turn, surprised, and look at CAMERA.
From the DELEGATE'S ANGLE.
Inside the booth, REGGIE and ADAM can be seen heading for the door in a hurry.
As the DELEGATES look at one another, confused.
By the locked gate.
A quick succession of shots showing: 1.Children's Merry-go-round
Point de Champs-Elys es with fountains playing
3.Children's swings
Laurent
salesman.
ADAM stands by the large fountain, staring off at something as REGGIE joins him.
ADAM starts off.
Between the curb and the Jardin, several temporary wooden booths have been set up.
They have collected quite a CROWD.
Into this area comes TEX, followed at a safe distance by ADAM.
Suddenly TEX stops.
As he stares wide-eyed at something.
Neatly displayed on a counter of one of the booths.
As he wheels to look at another booth.
In another arrangement.
He turns crazily to look at another booth, then another.
Various FLASH SHOTS of stamps of all sizes, shapes and colors.
As he understands.
He turns to rush off and bumps smack into ADAM.
TEX is startled.
They go off in opposite directions.
As she hurries along a row of stalls, weaving around small groups of MEN standing together, showing each other stamps.
Searching in another section of the market.
But it isn't.
Looking everywhere.
Suddenly she sees something.
Only a small boy's elbow and part of his arm show, the rest hidden by all the legs.
She recognizes him from these fragments.
She rushes to him, CAMERA PANNING WITH HER.
JEAN-LOUIS stands looking at some stamps.
SYLVIE grabs him.
REGGIE runs up and joins them.
JEAN-LOUIS looks in one direction, then in the other, trying to remember.
Four of them -- a red, a yellow, a blue, and a green, still attached to the portion of the torn envelope.
As REGGIE comes hurrying up the stairs.
She goes first to ADAM's room and knocks.
BARTHOLOMEW, his face lathered for a shaving, is on the phone.
She hangs up, looks briefly at TEX's body, shudders, then hurries to the door.
As REGGIE leaves her room and goes to the elevator.
She presses the button, then notices it is in use.
She goes to the stairs and starts down.
Between the landings.
The stairs curve around the open elevator shaft.
As REGGIE comes down the stairs, the cage rises into view.
Inside is ADAM.
For a moment, she stops and their eyes meet.
REGGIE starts running downstairs.
ADAM pushes the emergency stop button and then starts the cage down.
As REGGIE comes off the stairs, passes the elevator gate and starts down toward the lobby, the cage a few feet behind her.
As REGGIE continues to run.
Between the first landing and the lobby.
REGGIE running, the elevator following.
A taxi stands by the curb.
REGGIE leaves the hotel and runs to it.
ADAM tries to look past him, to see REGGIE, but gives it up and goes back toward the ticket booth, on the run.
CAMERA LEADING REGGIE as she runs -- the passageway is nearly empty.
Her footsteps echo against the tile and concrete walls.
The jumble of advertising posters as it passes rapidly, forming a moving band of letters, women, cartoons and colors.
REGGIE stops and pauses for a moment at a sign indicating two different directions, an arrow for each.
CAMERA PANS SHARPLY, degrees, to pick up ADAM rounding the corner in hot pursuit.
REGGIE starts down the platform, looking behind her every few steps.
Suddenly she looks up in surprise -- there, across the tracks on the opposite platform is ADAM.
He has evidently made the wrong turn back in the passageway.
They stare at each other for a moment.
Then the bell rings, announcing the arrival of a train.
ADAM turns, running back through the exit behind him.
The approaching train can be heard.
As the TRAIN pulls in and comes to a stop.
The GENDARME opens the door for ADAM and escorts him out.
ADAM turns once more to look at REGGIE as he goes.
Moving quickly, he returns to the exit door and looks at the platform.
From ADAM'S P.O.V.
Featuring ADAM as he hurries from the car.
He finds his way blocked by FIVE NUNS in large, white butterfly hats.
It takes him a few precious seconds to work his way around them.
He stands on the platform as the train doors slam shut, the latches click, the whistle blows and the train pulls out.
He looks around in all directions, looking for some sign of REGGIE.
As ADAM enters the deserted area.
There is, miraculously, no sign of REGGIE.
CAMERA PANS to a phone booth (solid door with a window in the upper half) and we see REGGIE's hand reaching up to dial a number.
REGGIE sits on the floor of the booth, dialing.
An OPERATOR speaking into a headset.
SHOT -- PHONE BOOTH.
As REGGIE's head appears, peeking cautiously over the bottom of the window.
From inside the phone booth.
Through the glass ADAM can be seen, leaving the Sortie area.
Carefully, REGGIE opens the door and comes out.
She goes to the corner and looks around it.
as ADAM walks away from CAMERA, down the platform.
CAMERA PANS TO REGGIE, peeking around the corner.
She looks back once more at ADAM, then makes up her mind and starts running towards the exit.
As the bell rings announcing the next train.
He turns to look and sees REGGIE.
This news hits REGGIE hard and she stops, in alarm.
REGGIE stands out in the open, the stamps in her hand, confused as to which man she should go to).
REGGIE looks at one, then the other, not knowing what to do.
REGGIE stops in alarm.
During the following, he looks around, looking for some way out.
During this ADAM has moved out from behind the columns, creeping cautiously across the open space between the two colonnades and finally, behind the second.
As he aims carefully and fires.
As the bullet creases it.
As the deflected bullet rips the shoulder of his coat, leaving him unharmed.
He wheels.
With CARSON in the b.g., who fires at him.
Quickly, he peers back out and throws another shot.
Seeing CARSON otherwise occupied, she turns and runs toward the open stage door of the Com die Fran aise behind her.
Including CARSON who, seeing REGGIE running to the door, turns and fires at her.
But he is too late -- she is safely inside.
CARSON looks quickly back toward ADAM, then takes off after REGGIE.
He runs to it, tries the door and enters.
As CARSON enters the auditorium and looks around.
As the CAMERA SWEEPS the magnificent old theatre -- boxes, seats, stage, but there is no sign of REGGIE.
As CARSON walks up the aisle checking between the rows of seats.
A large room, lit by a single bare bulb, under the stage.
ADAM appears, moving cautiously, gun ready.
He creeps along next to the wall, looking around at all the various scenic pieces which fill the room.
As CARSON moves carefully across the darkened stage near the footlights, looking for REGGIE.
At mid-stage, CAMERA PANS DOWN to his feet, only a few inches from the prompter's box.
Inside, huddling down, is a terrified REGGIE, holding her breath as she watches him.
As CARSON moves into the opposite wings, sees the light board and throws on all the switches.
The stage is bathed in light.
He returns to the stage.
ADAM is looking up, having heard the footsteps on the stage over his head -- and hearing them now.
He looks around and sees a narrow, curving staircase leading up.
He goes to it, and, starting up, finds a door.
He tries the knob -- the door is locked.
REGGIE, cringing back from the bright light, notices the doorknob turning.
It makes a slight clicking sound.
CARSON, upstage, looking behind a piece of classic scenery, hears the doorknob and turns suddenly.
We catch a quick glimpse of REGGIE as she ducks down out of sight.
REGGIE huddled inside.
ADAM is listening carefully, trying to figure out where CARSON is standing, watching the ceiling.
It is marked C-He looks at the lever marked D-He is perspiring heavily.
Now he slowly reaches for the lever.
CARSON is about to move closer to the prompter's box when suddenly the stage under him opens and he plummets through out of sight.
At the same time we hear a shot.
As REGGIE slowly peers out.
He takes the foot and begins rubbing it.
ADAM says nothing.
As REGGIE and ADAM approach the MARINE in full-dress uniform always on guard at the Embassy.
A SECRETARY sits behind a desk.
She looks up as REGGIE enters.
The SECRETARY picks up her phone and presses a button.
REGGIE goes to the door leading to the private office.
Featuring the door as REGGIE enters.
She stops suddenly.
Featuring the desk.
Behind it sits ADAM (now CRUIKSHANK).
REGGIE stares at him, unbelievingly, then looks around, confused.
Gittes reaches into his desk and pulls out a shot glass, quickly selects a cheaper bottle of bourbon from several fifths of more expensive whiskeys.
Gittes pours a large shot.
He shoves the glass across his desk toward Curly.
Curly stares dumbly at it.
Then picks it up, and drains it.
He's now walking him past SOPHIE who pointedly averts her gaze.
He throws an arm around Curly and flashes a dazzling smile.
He shuts the door on him and the smile disappears.
Walsh rises when Gittes enters.
Gittes nods, walks on in.
Gittes walks over to her and again flashes a warm, sympathetic smile.
She holds her breath.
Gittes pulls up a chair sitting next to Mrs. Mulwray between Duffy and Walsh.
Gittes gives him an irritated glance.
Duffy stops chewing.
Gittes sighs.
Former Mayor SAM BAGBY is speaking.
Behind him is a huge map, with overleafs and bold lettering.
Some of the councilmen are reading funny papers and gossip columns while Bagby is speaking.
sitting next to some grubby farmers, bored.
He yawns, edges away from one of the dirtier farmers.
An amalgam of farmers, businessmen, and city employees have been listening with keen interest.
Looking up with interest from his racing form.
In a whispered conference.
Walks to the huge map with overleafs.
He is a slender man in his sixties, who wears glasses and moves with surprising fluidity.
He turns to a smaller, younger man, and nods.
The man turns the overleaf on the map.
Mulwray leaves the overleaf board and sits down.
Suddenly there are some whoops and hollers from the rear of the chambers and a redfaced FARMER drives in several scrawny, bleating sheep.
Bailiffs and sergeants-at-arms respond to the imprecations of the Council and attempt to capture the sheep and the farmers, having to restrain one who looks like he's going to bodily attack Mulwray.
Sun blazes off it's ugly concrete banks.
Where the banks are earthen, they are parched and choked with weeds.
After a moment, Mulwray's car pulls INTO VIEW on a flood control road about fifteen feet above the riverbed.
Holding a pair of binoculars, downstream and just above the flood control road using some dried mustard weeds for cover.
Trains the binoculars on him.
He watches while Mulwray makes his way down to the center of the riverbed.
There Mulwray stops, tuns slowly, appears to be looking at the bottom of the riverbed, or at nothing at all.
Then a small Mexican boy atop a swayback horse rides it into the riverbed, and into Gitte's view.
Moves a little further back as Mulwray rounds the bend in the river and comes face to face with the Mexican boy on the muddy banks.
Mulwray says something to the boy.
Mulwray points to the ground.
The boy gestures.
He kneels down in the mud and stares at it.
He seems to be concentrating on it.
After a moment, he rises, thanks the boy and heads swiftly back upstream scrambling up the bank to his car.
There he reaches through the window and pulls out a roll of blueprints or something like them.
He spreads them on the hood of his car and begins to scribble some notes, looking downstream from time to time.
He drives off.
Pulls up, parks.
Gittes looks to his right where the bay is a long, clear crescent.
Gittes hesitates, then moves in that direction but climbs along the promontory in order to be above Mulwray.
Looks absently up toward Gittes.
There's a promontory of sorts.
Mulwray picks up a starfish.
Below him in watching the water trickling down from the outfall near Gittes.
Mulwray stands and stares at the water, apparently fascinated.
Even as Gittes watches Mulwray watching, the volume and velocity seem to increase until it gushes in spurts, cascading into the sea, whipping it into a foam.
He's in a puddle of water and the seat of his trousers is wet.
There's a slip of paper stuck under the windshield wiper.
Gittes pulls it off, gets in the car and turns on the dash light.
Gittes reaches down and opens his glove compartment.
Consists of a small mountain of Ingersoll pocket watches.
The cheap price tags are still on them.
Gittes pulls out one.
He absently winds it, checks the time with his own watch.
It's 9:as he walks to Mulwray's car and places it behind the front wheel of Mulwray's car.
Walsh shows him the photos.
He looks at them.
They are a series outside a restaurant showing Mulwray with another man whose appearance is striking.
In two of the photos a gnarled cane is visible.
Gittes tosses down the photos in disgust.
Duffy is rowing, Gittes seated in the stern.
They pass Mulwray and a slender blonde girl in a summer print dress, drifting in their rowboat, Mulwray fondly doting on the girl.
He shoots past Duffy, expertly running off a couple of fast shots.
Mulwray and the girl seem blissfully unaware of them.
Turns again and they row past Mulwray and the girl, Gittes again clicking off several fast shots.
MOVE ALONG the red tiled roof and down to a lower level of the roof where Gittes' feet are hooked over the apex of the roof and Gittes himself is stretched face downward on the tiles, pointing himself and his camera to a veranda below him where the girl and Mulwray are eating.
Gittes is clicking off more shots when the tiles his feet are hooked over come loose.
Gittes begins a slow slide down the tile to the edge of the roof and possibly over it to a three-story drop.
The loose tile also begins to slide.
But a fragment off the cracked edge of the tile falls.
He tries to slow himself down.
Mulwray staring at the fragment at his feet.
He rises, looks up to the roof.
He looks to the girl.
In the style of the Hearst yellow press, there is a heart- shaped drawing around one of the photos that Gittes had taken.
A self-satisfied smile comes to Gittes' face.
A car is stalled.
The hood is up.
A man watches his radiator boiling over.
Holds the paper and reads while getting his haircut and his shoes shined.
In fact, almost all the customers are reading papers.
He straightens up.
Gittes gets out of the chair.
Barney, a little concerned, tries to restrain him, holding onto the barber sheet around Gittes' neck.
The Customer is shrinking back into the chair.
Gittes comes bursting in, slapping a newspapers on his thigh.
She gets up and leaves.
Walsh comes out of his office, Duffy out of the other one.
A stunning YOUNG WOMAN appears behind Gittes in his doorway.
She's shortly joined by a small, GRAY-HAIRED MAN.
They listen, unseen by Gittes.
Gittes laughs.
Gittes is staggered.
When Gittes looks up he sees the Young Woman, apparently in her late twenties.
She's so stunning that Gittes nearly gasps.
The little Gray-Haired Man winces.
She's walked past him toward the door.
Evelyn starts out the door and Gittes starts after her.
He stop her.
Evelyn flashes a cold smile.
Evelyn walks out the door.
This time he's stopped by the Gray-Haired Man who has also come out of his office and up behind him.
Gittes stares down at the papers in his hand.
Gittes turns to be handed a thick sheaf of papers, a summons and complaint.
The Secretary half rises in protest but Gittes is through the inner door.
The walls are covered with commendation, photos of Mulwray at various construction sites, large maps of watershed areas and reservoirs in the city.
On the desk is a framed, tinted photo of Evelyn in riding clothes.
Gittes moves to the desk, watching the translucent pane in the upper half of the door leading to the outer office as he does.
He begins to open and close the desk drawers after quickly examining the top.
He reopens the top drawer, and the bottom one opens.
He looks in it, pulls out a checkbook.
He opens it, riffles through the stubs like he was shuffling cards.
Drops it, finds a set of keys, an old phone book, and a menu from a Water Department lunch at the Biltmore Hotel in Gittes spots a shadow looming in front of the translucent pane.
Enters the room.
An anxious Secretary is right behind him.
Gittes nods, follows Yelburton out, through the outer office to his offices down the hall.
Smaller than Mulwray's, he has most noticeably a lacquered marlin mounted on the wall.
There are a couple of other pictures of Yelburton with yellowtail and other fish he's standing beside.
There's also a small burgee of a fish with the initials A.C.below it, tacked onto the wall.
Gittes spots a card tray on Yelburton's desk.
Gittes fishes a couple off the tray, puts them in his handkerchief pocket.
He goes out the door, nearly running into a man who is standing by the Secretary's desk, about GITTES' age only a head taller and a foot wider, dressed in a plain suit that fits him about as well as a brown paper bag.
Mulvihill stares at Gittes with unblinking eyes, remains by the desk.
Mulvihill moves toward Gittes, shaking with fury.
Yelburton steps between them.
Rings the bell.
A powerful CHINESE BUTLER with heavy hair and a half-jacket of gold on one front tooth, answers the door.
He hands the Chinese Butler a card from his wallet.
The Butler takes it and disappears, leaving Gittes standing in the doorway.
Gittes stands, and sweats, watching a Japanese GARDENER trim a hedge.
A chauffeur is washing down a cream-colored Packard with a chamois.
Steam rises off the hood.
The squeaking has obviously come from the chamois.
Gittes looks behind him.
The Chinese Butler is gesturing for him to follow.
Follows him, trying to check out the rooms as he goes.
A maid is cleaning in the den.
They pass through it out some French doors along a trellised walkway to a large pond with running water.
After a moment, the Gardener comes running back.
He smiles at Gittes, probes into the pond.
After a moment, the Gardener drops the long probe, the waters recede.
The pond is over-flowing.
It's suddenly very quiet except for the runnning water.
Gittes is left standing by the pond.
There's something gleaming in the bottom of it.
The Gardener nods, and is off, leaving Gittes staring at the object in the bottom of the pond that is gleaming.
Gittes notes it.
He looks at the tool the Gardener was using, hesitates, picks it up and starts to probe into the pond himself, toward the gleaming object.
He then spots Evelyn rounding a turn, coming down the trellised pathway.
He casually belts the probe, holds onto it for poise.
Evelyn is wearing jeans that are lathered white on the inside of the thighs and laced with brown horsehair.
She's wearing riding boots, is perspiring a little, but looks younger than she did in the office.
Gittes is a little taken aback at seeing Evelyn.
The Chinese Butler appears on the veranda.
Chinese Butler nods, disappears.
Evelyn sits at a glass-topped table.
Gittes Joins her.
The iced tea comes on a tray which Ramon sets down between them.
Evelyn looks up.
Gittes smiles a little sheepishly.
Again he laughs a little nervously.
Gittes nods.
Gittes drives up a winding road, following a flood channel up into the parched hills.
One a rescue truck, are at the entrance to the reservoir.
The chain link fence with its KEEP OUT sign is open and there are people milling around.
The reservoir is below.
Gittes' car is stopped by a couple of UNIFORMED POLICE.
He fishes out one of Yelburton's cards from his handkerchief pocket, hands it to the Guard.
Gittes drives past the Guards, through the gate, along the reservoir.
Gittes stops and gets out of the car.
He spots a police car and an unmarked one as well.
Several men with their backs turned, one talking quietly, staring down into the reservoir where other men in small skiffs are apparently dredging for something.
One of the men turns and sees Gittes.
He recognizes Gittes and is visibly shocked.
Loach tries to ease him down the path.
At the sound of his raised voice, a man standing at the edge of the channel, talking to two boys in swimming trunks, turns around.
Both Gittes and Escobar register considerable surprise at seeing one another.
The men around them are extremely uneasy.
They walk a couple of steps.
Gittes reaches into his pocket, pulls out his cigarette case.
Escobar nods.
Finally, Escobar smiles.
The other police, two plainclothesmen and a uniformed officer, watch them.
Escobar points down to the reservoir.
A couple of men using poles with hooks are fishing about in the water.
It can be SEEN that one of them has hooked something.
The other man hooks it, too.
They pull, revealing the soaking back of a man's coat.
They start to pull the body into the skiff.
Are standing over the body of Mulwray.
Escobar has the sheet drawn back.
Escobar drops the sheet.
Evelyn nods.
Escobar and Evelyn move a few feet to one side and whisper, almost as though they were trying to keep the corpse from hearing them.
Escobar and Evelyn move slowly toward the door.
Evelyn looks at Escobar but doesn't know how to answer him.
Escobar nods.
Gittes has been sitting on a wooden bench, smoking and listening.
At this question, he rises and looks through the doorway.
Escobar sees him, ignores him.
Evelyn looks up to see Gittes standing in the doorway only a foot or two from her.
She stops cold.
Escobar is right at her back.
They look at one another for a long moment.
Gittes says nothing.
She finishes, looks plaintively at Gittes.
Evelyn nods slightly Escobar coughs.
Gittes picks up the sheet and pulls it back.
Eyes open, the face badly cut and bruised.
They begin to walk slowly, again have to move out of the way as some other corpse is being wheeled out of one of the Coroner cubicles.
Morty is wheeling in another body with the help of an assistant.
Morty pulls back the sheet.
Morty brushes some sand from the man's face, laughs.
As he begins to move the body into the refrigerator, he breaks into a wrenching spasm of coughing.
Morty shrugs.
The Boy doesn't answer.
The Boy nods.
The horse snorts.
The Boy rides slowly on.
Gittes scrambles up the embankment to note the direction the storm drain by Hollenbeck Bridge takes.
It is headed above toward the Hollywood Hills, where the sun is setting.
Along the flood channel.
It is dark now and Gittes follows the channel with the car spotlight.
The road is dirt.
Heavy clusters of oak trees and eucalyptus are everywhere.
Another turn and a pie- shaped view of a lake of lights in the city below can be over the road, bolted.
He turns at a fork in the road which allows him to continue following the flood channel.
The road is narrower.
Gittes drives more slowly.
The chain-link itself actually extends over the flood channel and down into it, making access along the channel itself impossible.
Gittes backs up, turns off the motor, the car lights, the spotlight.
Alone light overhead on tension wires is the sole illumination.
Gittes gets out of the car, clubs the fence near the Flood channel itself.
Lights from the reservoir still higher above can be SEEN.
Gittes carefully works his way up through the thick Foliage toward a second and large chain-link fence.
Gittes dives into the flood control channel, which is at this point about four feet deep and six feet wide.
Gittes loses himself among the ivy in the channel.
He starts to lift his head to catch the direction.
Then he's inundated with a rush of water which pours over him, knocks off his hat, carries him down the channel, banging into its banks, as he desperately tries to grab some of the overgrowth to hang on and pull himself out.
But the force of the stream batters him and carries him with it until he's brought rudely to the chainlink fence.
It stops him cold.
Swearing and choking, he pulls himself out of the rushing water by means of the fence itself.
Drenched, battered, he slowly climbs back over the fence and makes his way toward his car.
He fishes for his car keys, looks down.
One shoe is missing.
He starts to get into his car but Mulvihill and a SMALLER MAN stop him.
Mulvihill pulling his coat down and pinning his arms, holding him tightly.
The smaller man thrusts a switchblade knife about an inch and a half up Gittes' left nostril.
Frozen, the knife in his nostril, the street lamp overhead gleaming on the silvery blade.
With a quick flick the Smaller Man pulls back on the blade, laying Gittes' left nostril open about an inch further.
Gittes screams.
Blood gushes down onto his shirt and coat.
Gittes bends over, instinctively trying to keep the blood from getting on his clothes.
Mulvihill and the Smaller Man stare at him.
Gittes is now groveling on his hands and knees.
Gittes on the ground can see only his tormentor's two-tone brown and white wing-tipped shoes, lightly freckled with his blood.
Comes up and lightly shoves Gittes into the ground.
The SOUND of FOOTSTEPS RETREATING, Gittes gasping.
Sits behind his desk, BACK TO CAMERA, not moving.
Duffy sits staring at nothing, Walsh moves uneasily around the room.
Gittes turns slowly to Walsh.
He lightly taps his nose.
Gittes looks irritated.
Gittes picks up the phone.
Walsh promptly starts to tell Duffy the Admiral Byrd story.
Walsh has finished off the punch line and both men are laughing raucously.
Gittes drops the mail he's been loafing through and puts his hand over the receiver.
Gittes looks to his two men.
Gittes is seated, flips through the paper until he finds the OBITUARY COLUMN, scans it, looks up, abruptly tears the column from the paper and puts it in his pocket.
Evelyn Mulwray is standing at the table as he does so.
He rises, allows her to sit.
She's wearing dove gray gabardine, subdued, tailored.
The waiter's appeared.
Evelyn is looking at Gittes' nose.
Evelyn looks down and smoothes her gloves.
When she looks back up she stares expectantly at Gittes.
Gittes pulls out a torn envelope.
Gittes' fingers the envelope.
He coughs.
Gittes smiles.
Gittes looks significantly to Evelyn.
Evelyn is clearly angry but she is controlling it.
This subdues Gittes a little.
Evelyn is still a little heated.
Evelyn for the first time appears a little embarrassed.
Evelyn looks squarely at him.
Gittes nods.
He's been fingering the envelope.
Evelyn turns into Gittes.
Gittes leans on the open door of his car and in to Evelyn.
He talks quietly but spits it out.
Evelyn steadies herself on the open car door.
She stares at Gittes for a long moment.
Then he gently tugs the car door closed.
Evelyn remains unperturbed.
He drives off into the Wilshire traffic, leaving Evelyn looking after him.
Gittes goes through the door to the Secretary.
She looks up.
She recognizes Gittes again and is not happy to see him.
The Secretary immediately gets up and goes into the inner office.
Gittes turns and strolls around the office a moment.
He stops as he spots a photo of the man with the cane Gittes had seen photos of earlier.
He is standing high in the mountains, near a pass.
Gittes pulls out a cigarette case, offers the Secretary one.
She refuses.
He lights up and begins to hum 'The Way You Look Tonight,' strolling along the wall looking at more photographs.
Here he spots several photos of a much younger Mulwray, along with Julian Cross.
Gittes, still humming, turns to the Secretary.
She gets up, annoyed, and goes into Yelburton's inner office.
Gittes goes back to the photographs.
He hears a SCRATCHING SOUND, apparently coming from just outside the outer door.
He moves quickly to it, hesitates, swiftly opens the door.
Workmen are behind it, scraping away Mulwray's name on the outer door, looking up at Gittes in some surprise.
The Secretary returns, sees the workman on the floor.
Gittes heads toward the door.
Gittes nods graciously, heads on into Yelburton's office.
There is a subtle but perceptible difference in Yelburton's attitude.
Gittes nods.
Gittes smiles, leaves an unsmiling Yelburton.
Gittes enters, drops his hat on Sophie's desk.
Sophie tries to tell him something but Gittes goes on into his office.
She looks up when he enters.
Gittes moves to his desk, barely breaking stride at the sight of her.
Is sitting, smoking.
Gittes buzzes Sophie.
Evelyn nods.
She lights another cigarette.
She signs it.
Cross is visibly surprised.
Cross nods.
Gittes glances down at the fish whose isinglass eye is glazed over with the heat of cooking.
Gittes laughs.
Gittes shrugs.
Cross starts to reply, then there's the SOUND of a MARIACHI BAND and some men in formation clear a bluff about a hundred yards off.
They are dressed like Spanish dons on horseback.
Cross shakes his head.
Cross looks to Gittes in some real surprise.
Cross looks hatefully at Gittes.
Dark and quiet except for the whirring of fans.
Gittes approaches one of the CLERKS at a desk.
The Clerk's droopy eyes widen a little which is a snotty remark.
Gittes smiles.
Gittes regards his back a moment, then goes to the stacks.
Gittes sees the Clerk turn to another, say something.
The second clerk gets on the phone.
The Clerk turns away abruptly.
He hauls down the northwest valley volume, opens it.
It's huge and there's a lot to go through.
The print itself makes him squint.
Showing TRACT, LOT, PARCEL, even a METES AND BOUNDS designation where the description of the land parcel is long and hopelessly involved e.g.'paces to Rio Seco, thence paces to Loma Linda, etc.' These descriptions are old and faded.
In the owners' column, however there are numerous freshly typed names pasted over the prior owners.
The Clerk turns sharply around.
Gittes looks a little surprised.
The exasperated Clerk reaches around, rummages, slaps a ruler on the desk.
Gittes goes back to the stacks with the ruler.
He opens the book, places the ruler not horizontally but vertically.
Beside the OWNER column he places the ruler, looks toward the clerks, then swiftly rips down the page, tearing out a strip about two inches wide containing the owner's name and property description.
As he tears, he either sniffles or coughs to cover the SOUND of the PAPER being ripped.
Amidst a hall of shimmering dust and heat, parched and drying groves, narrower roads.
Gittes parks at the edge of the field.
Gittes is hefted half off the ground and the two younger Farmers spin him around, going through his clothes.
They toss his wallet, his silver cigarette case, etc.
Gittes is badly banged up and half out on his feet.
Gittes' back is to the Red Faced Farmer.
Gittes leans against the back of his car, breathing heavily.
The Crippled Farmer pokes him rudely in the back with his crutch.
Gittes turns sharply.
Gittes looks up at the Red Faced Farmer.
The paper's on the ground.
He picks it up.
The Big Farmer takes a swing at Gittes.
Gittes kicks him squarely in the nuts, knees him in the jaw after he's doubled up, and hits him solidly.
The Crippled Farmer takes careful aim and brings his crutch down on the back of Gittes' head.
Gittes is knocked to the ground and lies still beside the Big Farmer who is writhing in agony in the dirt.
Is staring down at Gittes who's lying in the screened in porch of the farmers.
His wife, the Red Faced Farmer, and the Big Farmer are there, along with the dog.
He's got dried blood down the side of his face from his nose, a huge mouse on his cheek, and his clothes are torn in a couple of spots.
He looks out.
Gittes says nothing.
Evelyn driving.
Gittes pulls out cigarette case, takes one, offers one to Evelyn who refuses.
It's almost evening.
He pulls out the obituary column he'd folded up earlier in the day.
There is a small sign giving the name of the place in elegant neon scroll.
It sits on the rolling green lawns.
Evelyn's car pulls up before the elegant Spanish rest home, its entryway illuminated by streetlights.
Gittes gets out of the car with Evelyn.
He offers her his arm and they go up the walkway to the entrance.
Gittes and Evelyn are approached by an unctuous man in his forties, with a flower in his buttonhole.
Then he gets a clear look at Gittes, bruised, trousers torn, etc.
He sees Evelyn first.
Evelyn shakes her head.
Evelyn can't quite conceal her surprise at the question.
Evelyn stares back at Gittes, amused and appalled.
She manages to nod.
Gittes locks eyes with Palmer.
Gittes points to the wall.
After Evelyn looks, she turns to Gittes.
Gittes strolls toward the women knitting and working on the quilt.
Two of the ladies giggle.
The third gives them a curt look and goes back to her knitting.
Gittes approaches her.
Gittes looks at the quilt.
In it is the head of a fish among the rest of the crazy quilt pattern.
Gittes spots it.
Evelyn is beside him.
She gestures as if there's someone behind Palmer.
Gittes looks up, sees Palmer standing in the doorway, looking taut and a little drawn.
Mulvihill has walked up beside Gittes.
He makes the mistake of opening the glass door in the entryway, putting his back to Gittes for a moment.
Gittes swiftly pulls Mulvihill's jacket up over his head.
He spins him around.
With his jacket covering his face, Gittes hammers away at Mulvihlll, beating him against the glass door, along the wall, mercilessly pounding his fists into the cloth until the cloth turns red and Mulvihill begins to sink to the red tile floor.
Mulvihill's gun has clattered to the floor.
Gittes jumps in and she takes off across the lawn, tilting the elegant little neon sign on the lawn as she goes.
Evelyn looking straight ahead, driving.
After a moment she takes one hand off the wheel and rubs her left eye a little.
Gittes watches her.
Gittes stands on the veranda, smoking a cigarette, staring off into the night.
Gittes turns.
Evelyn comes out to the veranda, carrying a tray with whiskey and an ice bucket on it.
They drink.
Gittes looks sharply at her.
Then: She looks at him.
They're very close now as she's going over a mouse very near his eye.
VIEW SHIFTS AGAIN TO INCLUDE Gittes in bed, watching Evelyn next to him as she's talking on the phone.
Gittes stares at her silently.
She kisses him, rushes to the bathroom, shuts the door.
Gittes stares at it a moment.
She leaps out of bed, throwing on a robe.
Evelyn starts quickly for the bathroom, then comes back and kneels by the side of the bed, takes Gittes' hand.
Then leaps out of bed, rummages around, tosses on his trousers.
He grabs his shoes, throws them on.
Then hurries out of the bedroom.
Running across the driveway to the garage.
There are two cars there.
Mulwray's Buick and Evelyn's Packard.
Gittes moves over to the Buick, opens the passenger's door.
With the heel of his shoe, he kicks at the right rear taillight of the car.
He shatters the red lens, gets up.
He carefully pulls the red lens off the taillight, exposing the white light beneath it.
He tosses the red lens into the shrubbery and hurries back toward the house.
Evelyn's car speeds along the curves on Sunset Boulevard, the red and white lights coming IN AND OUT OF VIEW.
Behind the wheel of Mulwray's car, keeping a healthy distance from Evelyn in front of him.
Pulls up before a small little bungalow house.
She hurries on up the walkway to the front door.
He brings the car a few yards further down the street, parking it near Evelyn's.
Idles the engine with the lights off.
Gittes gets out of the car and goes up the walkway.
The curtains are drawn except for one of the small windows on the side of the house.
He goes to it and looks, balancing on the edge of the porch.
Gittes sees Evelyn's Oriental servant rush through the living room of the small house.
Here the windows have blinds.
He moves to one where the blind is not completely drawn.
There's an inch or so of space at the bottom.
Evelyn is pacing back and forth in and out of his line of vision.
After a moment someone rises INTO SHOT, obviously from lying on a bed.
The figure is just a few feet from Evelyn.
Her tear-stained face comes INTO VIEW.
Mulwray's girlfriend.
Evelyn kneels.
She's looking up to Evelyn, speaking in Spanish.
Continues to watch.
Gittes can see the servant again.
In a moment he re-emerges back through the living room carrying a tray with a glass and pitcher on it.
She insists that the girl swallow down some pills.
The girl reluctantly does.
Emerges from the house, goes to her car and gets in.
Evelyn sees Gittes sitting in her car, staring coldly at her.
Gittes starts to get out of the car.
Evelyn grabs his arm, nearly screaming.
Her intensity actually rips Gittes' already partially torn jacket.
He looks at it and her.
It seems to have a momentary calming effect on both of them.
Evelyn's head sinks onto the steering wheel, her hair covering her face.
Evelyn is breathing very deeply now.
She lifts her head and looks up at him.
He's genuinely puzzled.
Gittes sighs.
She begins to cry softly.
Gittes looks over to Evelyn.
Her hair covers most of her face from him.
There is a long moment of silence.
She nods.
He gets out and slams the car door.
The spray is hitting him full on the top of the head.
Gittes is so exhausted he's literally holding onto the nozzle as the water pours down.
He shuts the shower off, reaches weakly for a towel, dabs his nose lightly with it.
Pads around in elegant silk pajamas.
He walks over to the window where morning light is streaming in.
He closes the curtains, collapses on the bed, on top of the covers, inert.
Gittes lets it go on for a moment, then picks it up without saying anything.
Gittes slowly rises to one elbow.
He hangs up, falls back down.
Gittes swears, picks it up.
Before Gittes can say anything, the phone clicks dead.
It is a bungalow courtyard with a very narrow walkway and sickly green stucco.
Gittes at the front door.
It's slightly ajar.
He knocks.
He opens it and enters.
Morning light filters through the half-open blinds.
Dust particles in the shafts of light.
It's still and empty.
Gittes sees something down the hall, under the legs of a telephone table.
Gittes moves toward it.
It is grotesque.
When he gets closer he can see it's a wilted head of lettuce.
Just inside the kitchen some radishes and onions lie on the linoleum.
Gittes walks on into the kitchen.
Clearing the kitchen counter, Gittes sees IDA SESSIONS lying on her back on the floor, surrounded by the groceries from a broken bag.
Ice cream has melted around her.
Her eyes are open, a stream of ants is moving across the ice cream and into her mouth.
She's recognizable as the woman who posed as Evelyn Mulwray.
He gingerly opens her handbag, fishes for its contents, takes them and looks at them on the kitchen counter.
Wallet with a few bills in it, driver's license with her name.
A Screen Actors Guild card.
Gittes nods, turns, carefully replaces the items in the purse.
He idly opens the broom closet, pantry, and even Frigidaire, which is all but empty.
Then he steps over her body and moves across the hall to a door that is slightly ajar.
Gittes enters and turns on the light.
Escobar and another PLAINCLOTHED MAN stand in the bathroom by the entrance to the bedroom door.
Gittes turns around.
A THIRD MAN is now coming down the hall from the bedroom.
The Assistant starts to move for Gittes who is ready for him.
Escobar steps between the two.
Gittes takes a deep breath.
It yawns AT CAMERA, only a trickle of water dropping into the ocean.
VIEW WIDENS TO INCLUDE Escobar, Gittes, and two Plain clothesmen, standing and staring at the empty pipe as if they expect it to talk.
A THIRD ASSISTANT runs down the side of the cliff and Over to Escobar.
Escobar turns to Gittes.
Stares at him for a long moment.
Escobar stares hatefully at Gittes.
He rings the doorbell.
Scarcely waiting for an answer he tries it.
It's locked.
He reaches into his pocket pulls out his cigarette case, takes a pick out of the side and starts to fool with the lock.
The Maid opens the door abruptly, stares in some surprise at Gittes.
Gittes in Mulwray's Buick whips into the driveway.
Gittes pushes past him.
She takes Gittes' arm.
Evelyn, looking a little worn but glad to see him hurries to the door.
She looks at him, searching his face.
Gittes is looking around it.
Gittes continues to look around.
He sees clothes laid out for packing in a bedroom off the living room.
He goes to the phone and dials.
Gittes looks at her, then takes the handkerchief out of his breast pocket.
Unfolds it on a coffee table, revealing the bifocal glasses, one lens still intact.
Evelyn stares dumbly at them.
gets up, shakes her.
Evelyn is trembling.
Gittes stares at her.
He's been charged with anger and when Evelyn says this it explodes.
Gittes smiles.
He hits her full in the face.
Evelyn stares back at him.
The blow has forced tears from her eyes, but she makes no move, not even to defend herself.
Gittes slaps her again.
Gittes slaps her again.
He hits her again.
He belts her finally, knocking her into a cheap Chinese vase which shatters and she collapses on the sofa, sobbing.
Kyo comes running down the stairs.
Kyo turns after staring at Gittes for a moment then goes back upstairs.
She nods.
Then he follows her gaze to the glasses lying on his handkerchief.
Gittes picks up the glasses, stares at the lens, is momentarily lost in them.
From the stairs.
She has her arm around Katherine.
With her arm around the girl, talking in Spanish, Evelyn hurries her toward the bedroom.
In a moment she re-emerges.
He nods slowly.
Gittes hangs up and goes to the door.
He opens it.
Escobar and his minions appear from either side of the door.
A steep hill overlooks part of the harbor.
Escobar's unmarked car pulls up to a stop in front of a Spanish duplex perched on the steep hillside.
Escobar shakes his head.
Gittes gets out of the car, glances around, goes up the stairs.
It opens.
It's a WOMAN who's not recognizable.
She's got the remnants of a black eye.
Gittes looks past her to Curly, the fisherman from the first scene.
Curly rises and comes over to him, greets him happily.
He's seated at the dinner table with his father, his mother, and his children.
Curly looks up in surprise.
Gittes enters and closes the door.
They head out the back door and down the steps toward the garage.
Gets in, starts the car, backs it out.
Gittes hops in.
They take off.
It's an old, late twenties Plymouth Sedan.
At the edge of the alley Gittes looks back.
Escobar is getting out of his car, moving towards the duplex.
Gittes slips down in the seat.
Curly nods, reassured.
He gets in and takes off.
A car pulls up.
By the pond, cigarette smoke drifts INTO SHOT.
In a moment Cross can be SEEN, looking TOWARD CAMERA.
He walks toward Gittes who stands by the pond, smoking.
Cross' tone alters here.
Cross dips into his coat pocket and pulls out a pair of rimless glasses.
He puts them on, reads.
Stares at the bifocal lenses as Cross continues to look through the obituary column.
He looks up.
Gittes is holding the bifocals with the broken lens now.
Cross looks at the glasses.
Cross makes a funny little cock of his head.
Mulvihill moves INTO VIEW.
Extends his hand for the glasses.
Gittes hands over the glasses.
He holds onto Evelyn as Escobar and others hurry up.
Cross himself elbows through.
THE DOG yawns and shakes its head.
THE PHONE RECEIVER slams into the cradle.
THE RUMPLED FIGURE slowly sits up and remains motionless.
He musses his hair and stands.
The Rumpled Figure lays down on the bed.
It is the face of DANTE and this is Dante's room; this is Dante's life.
DANTE grabs the dog and wrestles it.
The dog licks water from the toilet.
THE DOG stands and wags its tail.
A towel-dressed DANTE opens the fridge and peers inside.
We now see his face.
He grabs a half-empty gallon of milk and closes the door.
One scoop, two scoops, three scoops, four scoops.
Chocolate milk mix is heaped into a tumbler.
DANTE gulps his breakfast.
A hand grabs keys from atop a VCR.
The car pulls up, with a screech.
Feet descend to the ground from the open door.
Keys jam into a lock and pop it open.
DANTE lifts the metal shutter revealing the door.
Suddenly, the lights flick on, revealing the glorious interior of the convenience store.
A very dark room barely lit by the daylight.
THE CAT looks at DANTE as he passes the camera quickly.
THE PAPER BUNDLE is snapped open with scissors
He opens it and grabs two bundles of papers, throwing them inside the store.
One rack remains empty.
Newspapers slam into the appropriate racks.
A coffee filter is placed in a metal pot.
Ground coffee follows, and the mix is shoved into place in the coffeemaker.
The switch is flicked and the machine comes to life.
The empty newspaper rack with the heading ASBURY PARK PRESS seems out of place among all the other stacks of papers.
DANTE is puzzled and annoyed.
He rolls his eyes as it occurs to him.
He takes a step back to grab the coin.
The register pops open, and a hand extracts a quarter.
Through murky glass and thin metal grating, we see DANTE approach.
He stops and drops a quarter in the slot.
He pulls the door down, finally allowing us a clear view as he reaches toward the camera.
DANTE pulls a stack of newspapers from the Asbury Park Press vending machine.
He struggles to hold them all in one hand as he lets the door slam shut.
He turns to walk away, but the sound of the quarter dropping into the change slot stops him.
The papers drop into the once-empty rack with a resounding flop.
The quarter drops back into the register drawer.
The lock is gummed up with gum or something hard and obtrusive like gum, preventing the key from being inserted.
DANTE tries to jam the key into the window shutter lock.
He looks down at it.
DANTE looks around and kicks the shutter angrily.
The car trunk pops open and a hand reaches inside, pulling out a folded white sheet.
A can of shoe polish is grabbed from the shelf.
DANTE dips his fingers into the shoe polish and writes large letters on the unfurled sheet, leaning on the cooler.
DANTE stands on a garbage can and tucks a corner of the sheet under the awning.
He jumps down.
The banner reads I ASSURE YOU, WE'RE OPEN.
The door sign shifts from CLOSED to OPEN.
The clock reads 6:DANTE leans behind the counter, the morning routine completed.
He stares ahead, catatonic, then drops his head in his hands.
The store, with its makeshift banner looming in the dim morning hour, just after dawn.
A car drives by.
DANTE waits on a customer (ACTIVIST) buying coffee.
The ACTIVIST leans on a briefcase and drinks his coffee.
Another CUSTOMER leans in the door.
The ACTIVIST lifts his briefcase onto the counter.
He opens it and extracts a sickly-looking lung model.
The ACTIVIST hands him something from the briefcase.
Hands him a picture.
The CUSTOMER exits.
Another CUSTOMER comes up to the counter.
A blank wall.
JAY steps into the frame, followed by SILENT BOB.
JAY then throws down with a makeshift slam dance, spinning his arm and fake-hitting SILENT BOB.
JAY pulls off his coat and swings it into the arms of SILENT BOB.
SILENT BOB lights a smoke.
SILENT BOB points to something off-screen.
SILENT BOB nods.
JAY makes blow job faces down an imaginary line of guys, looking quite like a performing seal.
He throws a little humming sound behind each nod.
He then hops up quickly.
The small crowd begins to chant and jeer in DANTE's face.
VERONICA enters and surveys the mess.
The CROWD throws cigarettes at DANTE, pelting him in the face.
Suddenly, a loud blast is heard, and white powder explodes over the throng.
Everyone turns to face.
VERONICA as she stands in one of the freezer cases, holding a fire extinguisher.
The CROWD looks among themselves.
Someone points to O.C.
The ACTIVIST carries his briefcase surreptitiously toward the door.
VERONICA jumps off the freezer case, training the nozzle of the extinguisher on the ACTIVIST.
She pokes the extinguisher nozzle at him, warningly.
He reaches into his briefcase.
He pulls out a business card and hands it to her.
She reads it.
He nods.
He nods again.
She blasts him with more chemical as he exits.
He quickly flees.
The CROWD sheepishly exits, one by one, offering apologetic glances.
VERONICA watches the crowd disperse, disgusted.
DANTE tries to regain his composure.
The last of the crowd exits.
DANTE is sitting on the floor, head in his folded arms.
She slaps him.
VERONICA stands, letting DANTE'S head hit the floor.
A handsome young man (WILLAM) is standing at the counter.
VERONICA reacts to him.
A moment of silence as DANTE'S chuckles fade to comprehension.
DANTE waits on a customer in the interim.
She counts silently, using fingers as marks.
VERONICA stops counting.
DANTE chases VERONICA down and grabs her by the door.
She exits in a huff.
VERONICA violently lets go of him.
VERONICA went.
Then he swings the door open and yells out.
Two men who were walking in the opposite direction outside double back and head in the direction.
DANTE stands there in silence for a moment.
A videocassette encased in the customary black box flips repeatedly, held by an impatient grasp.
It's twenty after.
He should be here soon.
The IMPATIENT CUSTOMER glares at DANTE.
Dante studies a copy of Paradise Lost, making a strong attempt at not noticing the glare.
He storms out.
Dante lifts a ring of keys from the counter.
The half-filled trash can swallows the ring of keys.
A hapless RANDAL drifts by and stops.
He glances at the door, peers inside, and gives the door a tug.
Another VIDEO-ANXIOUS CUSTOMER leans against the video store door.
RANDAL walks away.
The VERY ANXIOUS CUSTOMER stands like a sentry at post.
The IMPATIENT CUSTOMER storms up.
The IMPATIENT CUSTOMER stops RANDAL.
A pile of videocassettes is plopped onto the counter, with a single key on top.
RANDAL marches off.
RANDAL balances the pile of tapes on his head.
The IMPATIENT CUSTOMER stares after him.
The VERY ANXIOUS CUSTOMER now sits on the ground, next to the video store door.
RANDAL balances his burden and shoves the key into the lock.
The VERY ANXIOUS CUSTOMER stares as RANDAL enters the store.
The door closes behind him, only to be held ajar in a gentlemanly fashion a few moments later.
RANDAL smiles.
We've seen this same routine before.
A coffee filter is shoved into the metal pan and someone heaps ground coffee on it.
DANTE crosses back to his post, as RANDAL enters, tossing the key into the air happily and catching it.
He picks the cat up.
He walks by a row of snacks and grabs one without looking at it.
He holds a list in his hand.
DANTE sits in his seat behind the register.
RANDAL grabs a paper and joins him behind the counter.
THE HEADLINE of the engagement announcement reads, BREE TO .
RANDAL dials the phone.
A CUSTOMER comes to the counter and waits.
He looks at the litter box.
A black cat suddenly jumps into it and starts pawing around.
The CUSTOMER watches as the cat takes a huge dump, leaning on its haunches to accommodate the stinky load.
DANTE hangs up.
He looks at the paper ruefully, shaking his head.
He then sniffs the air.
JAY, SILENT BOB and OLAF lean against wall.
OLAF looks quizzically at SILENT BOB.
OLAF looks the girls up and down.
OLAF makes a metal face.
OLAF laughs and shakes his head.
OLAF busts a crimson metal sneer and cackles deeply.
The theme to Star Wars plays.
RANDAL leans back in his chair, staring up at the TV.
He stands, points the remote, clicks the TV off, and ponders.
RANDAL locks the door and walks away, while OLAF sings for the small crowd.
The can pops off and DANTE staggers back a few steps.
The man rubs his hand.
The MAN exits as RANDAL enters.
DANTE throws the canister away.
RANDAL follows DANTE as he cleans up around the store.
DANTE steps behind the counter.
The BLUE-COLLAR MAN joins them.
The BLUE-COLLAR MAN exits.
DANTE and RANDAL remain respectfully quiet for a moment.
RANDAL hardly stirs and continues to read his paper.
The INDECISIVE CUSTOMER wears a face that belies utter disbelief in the audacity of this most lackadaisical video clerk.
The INDECISIVE CUSTOMER is a tad flabbergasted, but not put off.
The INDECISIVE CUSTOMER smirks smugly at RANDAL and his paper.
The INDECISIVE CUSTOMER half turns to see if her comment was even heard.
She tries again, but this time with a different approach.
RANDAL continues to read his paper, not looking up.
RANDAL continues to read.
The INDECISIVE CUSTOMER tries harder, then louder and more direct.
RANDAL continues to read.
The INDECISIVE CUSTOMER holds up her rental choices.
RANDAL, as always, reads on.
The INDECISIVE CUSTOMER shakes her head in disgust and throws the movies back onto the wall.
An angry WOMAN opens the door
She storms out.
He hops over the counter and whips the door open.
RANDAL is offended.
RANDAL closes the door and stands there, momentarily, totally appalled by her exiting remark, then shakes his head.
He reaches behind the counter and grabs a ring of keys.
Exiting, he locks the door behind him from the outside, gives it a tug to ensure its security, and storms off in the opposite direction from the woman.
DANTE is staring, open-mouthed, at something O.C.
RANDAL hurls the door open and immediately launches into his tirade.
An ODD MAN sits on the floor, surrounded by cartons of eggs, all opened.
The ODD MAN holds an egg up to the light and studies it from several different angles.
He grabs a carton from the cooler case, pops it open, and examines each egg carefully.
RANDAL snickers at his friend.
RANDAL and DANTE study the O.C. oddity.
The ODD MAN is spinning an egg on the floor.
A SMOKER steps in.
Dante manages to break his study of the O.C. oddity and searches for the smokes.
The smoker glances at RANDAL and then at the O.C. oddity.
The SMOKER looks at RANDAL.
The ODD MAN places a handkerchief over an egg on the floor.
He quickly whisks the handkerchief away to reveal the egg still sitting on the floor.
DANTE, RANDAL and the SMOKER stare at the O.C. man.
And then a LITTLE GIRL comes into view, smiling and holding money.
She can't be any more than five.
A female CUSTOMER pops items onto the counter.
The CUSTOMER stands silently, awaiting something.
DANTE rings her up.
RANDAL flips open the magazine's centerfold-a graphic picture of a woman with her vaginal lips and anus spread wide open.
DANTE frantically apologizes to the rapidly exiting CUSTOMER.
RANDAL checks out the centerfold wistfully.
A WOMAN pulls out gallon after gallon, looking deep into the cooler for that perfect container of milk.
A series of people addressing the camera, asking the dumb questions.
A series of people standing in various locations throughout the convenience store, asking truly dumb questions.
DANTE gives RANDAL a shove to shut him up.
VERONICA enters the store, carrying books and something covered with aluminum foil.
DANTE is suddenly by her side, taking the books from under her arm.
RANDAL makes loud slurping noises from O.C.
RANDAL walks past the two, and pats VERONICA on the head.
He exits.
She exits.
RANDAL is recommending titles to potential customers.
RANDAL pops his head in and makes the loud slurping noise again.
He hangs up.
RANDAL joins him.
RANDAL walks away.
DANTE shakes his head in frustration and picks up the phone again.
DANTE rolls his eyes to the ceiling.
RANDAL comes back.
TAPE is rolled around the top of a stick.
An orange ball is slapped back and forth by a blade.
Laces are pulled tightly.
RANDAL enters, wearing his equipment.
The HOCKEY PLAYERS fill the convenience store.
SANFORD skates up and skids to a halt.
ON THE ROOF they jump off the ladder and skate around.
From across the street we get the full, odd perspective: a store with many men gliding around on the roof.
Some sit on the floor or lean against the coolers, but all are either preparing or practicing.
On the roof DANTE skates and passes with another player.
The PLAYERS ascend a ladder adjacent to the door, one by one.
RANDAL pulls his mask on and slaps his glove, urging a shot.
SANFORD skates in and takes a shot, which RANDAL blocks.
JAY and SILENT BOB deal to a player: he drops money over the ledge and JAY throws up a dime bag.
DANTE holds a ball in the center of the court.
REDDING stretches, leaning against the sign.
DANTE skids to the sidelines.
DANTE skates to his side.
DANTE skids back to the sidelines to address the CUSTOMER.
Below, a WOMAN pulls at the door.
She peers into the store, face against the glass.
The WOMAN backs up and, shielding her eyes, looks toward the roof.
A new face-off pits DANTE against the CUSTOMER.
The CUSTOMER winds up and takes a hard shot.
The ball sails off the court, through the air, and into a faraway yard.
The ball drops between the two and DANTE gets flattened.
DANTE scrambles to the edge and calls over.
DANTE looks around, hyperventilating.
DANTE calls to the sidelines.
SANFORD skates up to him.
DANTE skates off.
DANTE standing on a ladder, replaces a fluorescent light.
An OLD MAN joins him at the foot of the ladder.
The light in place, DANTE descends the ladder and closes it.
DANTE glances over and reacts.
The OLD MAN walks off.
DANTE heads back to the counter.
The OLD MAN returns.
DANTE is visibly taken aback.
DANTE drives with passenger RANDAL, their backs to the camera.
Absolute silence.
DANTE glares at RANDAL.
A MASSIVE CROWD is outside the store.
DANTE and RANDAL walk up the path to the funeral parlor.
Car locks are slammed down.
DANTE and RANDAL run from the front door, closely chased by a small crowd of angry mourners.
The car screams away.
The pursuing crowd stands in the middle of the street, shaking their fists, throwing things.
The car pulls up and RANDAL and DANTE get out.
Absolutely nobody is outside.
JAY enters the frame, right next to RANDAL.
He aims his butt at him and farts.
DANTE grabs RANDAL.
RANDAL lunges for him.
A KID tugs at JAY'S shirt.
They head back to the counter.
DANTE walks away, shaking his head.
DANTE puts up cigarettes.
The CUSTOMER lets it sink in, and then leaves in a huff.
Another CUSTOMER leans in.
RANDAL spits a mist of water at the customer, drenching him.
The man reacts violently, attempting to grab RANDAL from over the counter.
DANTE plays block.
RANDAL makes no move, but remains untouched.
RANDAL salutes him.
The CUSTOMER leaves, wiping water from his face.
RANDAL exits.
DANTE waits on a customer (TRAINER).
He lifts the gallon of milk into a paper bag, letting out a slight grunt.
A female customer (HEATHER) leans in the doorway.
A SUITED MAN carrying a notebook comes to the counter.
The SUITED MAN scribbles in his notebook.
The SUITED MAN rips a piece of paper out of his notebook and hands it to DANTE.
The SUITED MAN exits, with DANTE trying to follow.
JAY deals with a customer as SILENT BOB looks on.
The two exit.
DANTE, alone, studies his summons.
He rubs his forehead.
DANTE spins, angrily.
His expression softens.
DANTE hops behind the counter.
A customer pays for something while DANTE continues to talk.
Another customer comes to the counter.
Yet another customer comes to the counter.
JAY and SILENT BOB lean against the wall.
She kisses his forehead and walks away.
She heads toward the back.
DANTE watches her leave.
DANTE looks ahead, dreamily, half-spinning in his chair.
He then explodes in jubilance.
RANDAL enters carrying videos.
DANTE hands him the summons.
RANDAL reads it.
The cooler door is heard opening.
DANTE and RANDAL regard her curiously.
She looks very satisfied.
CAITLIN walks lazily down the convenience store aisle.
DANTE is bewildered.
She joins them, latching on to DANTE's arm, lovingly.
RANDAL and DANTE stare at CAITLIN, confused.
Everyone is silent.
(Same OLD MAN who took a porn mag to the bathroom.) .
THE OLD MAN'S FACE is serene, almost happy, as he lies on a stretcher.
The body bag zipper is pulled closed.
DANTE, the CORONER, and RANDAL stand around the stretcher-bound body bag.
It is an erection.
Midway down the body bag, something protrudes, pushing the bag up.
The CORONER takes notes.
RANDAL stares at it.
Ambulance attendants join them.
The stretcher is wheeled out.
The CORONER stares at DANTE.
RANDAL and the CORONER stare in disbelief.
RANDAL looks down, anonymously.
DANTE and RANDAL stare at the floor.
DANTE says nothing.
DANTE says even less than nothing.
RANDAL hops off the freezer case and steps O.C.
He exits.
RANDAL comes back.
DANTE crosses O.C.
DANTE repairs ripped dollar bills, taping them back together.
JAY enters with SILENT BOB and claps his hands.
Exit JAY.
SILENT BOB stands there.
SILENT BOB leaves.
DANTE shuts his eyes tightly and rubs the bridge of his nose with his thumb and forefinger, as if in deep concentration.
He suddenly snaps his eyes open.
RANDAL has a heart-to-heart with VERONICA.
VERONICA stares, dumbfounded.
VERONICA exits.
DANTE lies on the floor alone.
RANDAL exits and locks the door behind him.
Tight on RANDAL'S face as he steps inside.
Hands clasp around his throat and yank him out of the frame.
DANTE throttles RANDAL, choking him to the ground.
RANDAL throws his fists into DANTE'S midriff, throwing him back into the magazine rack.
RANDAL jumps to his feet as DANTE comes at him again.
RANDAL tumbles into the cakes as Entenman's products scatter beneath and around him.
He grabs a pound cake and hits DANTE in the head with it, using the opportunity to scurry down the middle aisle.
RANDAL grabs Italian bread and smacks it into DANTE'S face as he rushes him blindly.
DANTE leaps at his feet, and RANDAL grabs the shelves, knocking aspirin over until RANDAL-shrieking-sprays something in DANTE'S face.
DANTE chases him out of the frame.
M&M's scatter wildly across the empty floor, and the ruckus is heard O.C.
DANTE and RANDAL later, out of breath, on the floor.
DANTE paws at his eyes.
RANDAL sits up against the candy rack, rubbing his neck.
They are both silent.
DANTE lies on the floor, bacon held against a sort of crushed cookies, ripped-open candies, broken bread, and other damaged goods.
RANDAL gets up, leaving DANTE to contemplate his strong words alone.
DANTE places a mop in the corner.
DANTE and RANDAL silently clean up, backs to each other.
RANDAL pulls on his coat.
They stand in silence.
He exits.
The door is heard opening.
We approach a riverside village.
CENTERING on open touring car, as it drives along a river road.
We STOOP LOW towards the car.
He is the driver of the car.
Pleasant river landscapes (PROCESS) flow behind him.
He is dressed in dark clothes, a paper collar, a string tie.
As he drives he talks to himself.
He nods, smiles, and touches his hat.
A widow with a little wad of bills hidden away in the sugar- bowl.
He shifts into second gear, climbing a steep little hill.
The stones of a country graveyard gleam in the last daylight.
He starts fast and noisily down a steep hill.
She is hard at work, to music o.s.
Among the members of the sad burlesque audience, he is in strong contrast: a sour and aggressive expression.
We MOVE IN fast to a HEAD CLOSE-UP.
Labeled H-A-T-E in tattoo across four knuckles, it grips and flexes.
Before we see the lettering he slides it into his pocket.
His head slants; a cold smile; one eyelid flutters.
A hand descends firmly onto his shoulder.
He glances up behind him as we.
He bends down and speaks quietly next PREACHER'S ear.
A grim stone turretted fa ade; an American flag idles at top center.
They sit in the grass, a sentimental picture.
JOHN is nine; PEARL is five.
They are working together on PEARL'S doll; PEARL is dressing her, while JOHN gets on a difficult shoe.
He proudly exhibits the shod foot.
They look o.s.
and get up, PEARL dangling the doll.
A Model-T Ford approaches at maximal speed on uneven dirt road.
The car careens towards us; then swings into the sideyard as we PAN, and stops.
BEN HARPER half-falls out of the far door, his shoulder blood- stained, his eyes wild.
A hefty, simple man of thirty.
He looks at them, dazed, across the car.
On this he comes around clear of the car with a revolver in one hand and a bloody roll of banknotes in the other.
He moves forward and OUT and in his place we see two police cars, small in distance, coming fast.
They move at high speed, with sirens.
BEN and his CHILDREN, tiny in the distance, dilate.
Police cars approaching in BACKGROUND.
PEARL hugs her doll.
In b.g.the TROOPERS get out of their cars and fan out cautiously to surround BEN: guns in hand.
BEN backs away from his CHILDREN, raising his hands, gun in one hand.
We PULL BACK a little, enlarging the GROUP SHOT and the role of the TROOPERS in it.
TWO TROOPERS approach BEN from behind.
He runs forward and clasps his stomach, with his mouth open.
One TROOPER smacks the back of BEN'S head with a pistol barrel.
Another TROOPER, with a pistol barrel, knocks the pistol from BEN'S lifted hand.
BEN sinks to his knees as both men, and two others from the front, close in on him.
He takes in the GROUP with his mouth open.
They drive away fast in road dust.
Carrying a shopping bag, their mother, WILLA, runs up from BACKGROUND between the CHILDREN, looking always to cars o.s.
She has a rich body.
PEARL comes to her and she picks up PEARL and the doll; JOHN, laden with his oath, walks quickly into the house.
WILLA does a bewildered take, then looks again towards the cars o.s.
He lies on his back, chuckling and murmuring indistinctly in his sleep.
BEN lies in profile.
From the bunk above, the face of PREACHER stretches down into the SHOT, upside down, snake-like.
BEN wakes, sees PREACHER, and hits him so hard in the face that he falls from bunk to floor.
PREACHER collects himself into a squat, nursing his face.
BEN sits up in bed.
He picks up and wads a sock.
PREACHER gets and pockets the knife.
They rest on sill of cell window, the lettered fingers legible.
The right hand is lettered L-O-V-E.
The hands open, disclosing his open knife.
They close over it.
His eyes lift from his hands, heavenward.
Moonlight on his face.
He prays, quietly.
Same SHOT as before, but now, prison lights are on; and a man, a prison GUARD, waits close inside door.
BART the HANGMAN joins him with a silent salute.
BART wears a hard derby.
They walk in silence into MEDIUM, MOVING SHOT, the GUARD talkative, BART reluctant to talk.
The Penitentiary recedes in b.g.
On porch, by door, is a doll's perambulator.
BART and GUARD walk into the SHOT.
GUARD stops, BART starts up his front steps.
The GUARD leaves the SHOT; BART goes in.
He hangs up his coat and hat.
Across this his wife speaks o.s.; a lighted door is ajar at rear of hall.
He looks past her, and we see two small CHILDREN asleep in a big brass bed.
BART registers, turns again to the basin, and we PAN them back into the original TWO-SHOT.
His WIFE'S eyes go sharp and quiet.
BART rinses his hands.
A sigh; he takes up the towel.
He looks at her a moment.
towards his CHILDREN.
He goes into their room on tiptoe.
He approaches his children, across whose bed WE SHOOT without yet seeing them.
He comes into MEDIUM CLOSE-UP.
As he leans and we TILT DOWN, he extends his large hands.
Two rose-and-gold little GIRLS lie in sleep; BART'S hands enter the SHOT and gently rearrange the covers so that their mouths and throats are free.
We watch, for a moment more, the two sleeping faces.
We are in Peacock Alley.
The tree-shaded dirt street of a small, one-street river town; a picturesque, mid-remnant of the old river civilization, which general progress has left behind.
They stroll barefoot down the empty dirt sidewalk.
They look towards the voices, PEARL friendly, JOHN hostile.
Several, within the door of the Schoolhouse, stick their heads around the edge.
They chant at the HARPER CHILDREN.
Another, next the door, is drawing something on the wall.
OVER these lines we CUT briefly to -- chanting, drawing.
The ARTIST completes in chalk, a large simple sketch of a man hanging from gallows.
As the verse ends we CUT TO: They look towards OUR CHILDREN; JOHN pays them no attention.
JOHN takes PEARL'S hand.
We SHOOT them through the window of MIZ CUNNINGHAM'S second- hand store.
The back of a watch is silhouetted large in FOREGROUND; JOHN'S eyes instantly fix on it; in b.g. the SCHOOL-CHILDREN finish their song and vanish, giggling, into the schoolhouse.
A watch with a moving sweep-hand, ticking.
OVER a shop- doorbell we hear: PEARL watches her; JOHN, the watch.
He walks off fast as we DOLLY BEHIND THEM; he leads PEARL, who hugs her doll.
A few paces in silence; now they come to the big window of Spoon's Ice Cream Parlor.
WILLA'S face is seen within; serving a customer, she sees them and waves them away.
He keeps her strolling.
WALT SPOON, comes out, proffering two lollypops.
A short, lighted, toy-like train departs the town along the river-bank, whistling.
The whistle TIES OVER the previous.
A square, HEAD-ON SHOT, river water below and vibrant starlight above; featuring a gas-lamp by the road; a tree; and pretty tree-shadows which work across a window.
PEARL lies in their bed, her doll snug on her shoulder.
JOHN sits on the edge of the bed, in his underwear.
He moves, and as his shadow moves away we see the shadow of PREACHER, motionless.
PEARL sits up and points at it.
JOHN notices her and sees it.
We PAN JOHN to the window.
He looks out.
He stands motionless.
He turns and we PAN him to bed.
People are waving from shore and boat.
We PAN her into frame UNCLE BIRDIE STEPTOE'S toy-like little wharf-boat.
As she passes broadside we CUT TO: as boat passes.
BIRDIE'S head sticks through a porthole.
He is a wiry old river character.
The boat whistles.
As BIRDIE speaks we PAN JOHN, and foundered skiff, into TWO-SHOT with.
We PAN JOHN from skiff to wharf and Birdie's door.
JOHN enters and sits on a box.
BIRDIE, in a ramshackle rocking chair, pours coffee.
He gives JOHN a cup of coffee.
He fetches a liquor bottle from beneath the rocking chair; about to pour he does a take at BESS'S PHOTOGRAPH.
It stands in a cabinet frame: A fine-looking young woman in archaic dress, with sharp, accusing black eyes.
He turns the picture away and splashes liquor into his coffee.
They drink.
JOHN looks cautious.
BIRDIE'S face falls; he takes another drink.
JOHN puts his cup down and gets up.
He heads for the door.
JOHN runs up the bank, not looking back.
He runs up the street close to Spoon's and stops dead.
He is horrified by what he sees.
GROUP SHOT through door-glass, from JOHN'S VIEW POINT PREACHER, WILLA and PEARL surround a little table.
WALT stands by, puffing his pipe.
ICEY in BACKGROUND, stirs fudge at a little soda-fountain stove.
WILLA looks both moved and pleased.
PEARL, shyly flirting with PREACHER, all but hides in WILLA'S skirts.
PREACHER dandles PEARL'S doll on his knee as he talks.
All the grownups are avid for his words, which we don't hear through the glass.
We SHOOT THROUGH the DOOR; he quietly enters.
They look casually to JOHN, and continue talking.
OVER this JOHN ENTERS the SHOT and stands at the fringe of the GROUP, staring at PREACHER'S hands and at the doll.
He hands the doll to PEARL.
JOHN'S eyes follow the doll.
PREACHER holds up both hands to JOHN.
JOHN looks back at his hands.
JOHN stands still.
They are impressed in their different ways.
Slight applause from the ADULTS.
PREACHER takes PEARL, with her doll, onto his lap.
He does a little take.
His eyes twinkle palely.
Something new enters his eyes; a game has begun between them.
A tight silence.
ICEY pours fudge into a buttered pan.
Few men in proportion to women and children.
We CENTER PREACHER.
The women watch him and admire him.
He gives WILLA the eye as we PAN to CENTER WILLA, who looks wooed and self-conscious.
ICEY enters the SHOT and whispers and beckons WILLA and, as the singing continues, they leave the group and start towards a shade tree in MEDIUM GROUND, which we PAN TO CENTER.
They walk; singers in BACKGROUND.
WILLA nods.
ICEY, looking ahead, is displeased.
They sit on the bench, their backs to us, partly concealed by the tree trunk.
They look around.
ICEY and WILLA enter the SHOT, their backs to us.
They sit on the bench, their back to us.
The CHILDREN recede towards the river in BACKGROUND.
WILLA meekly keeps her head down.
Singing continues o.s.
ICEY pivots and we PAN OVER her to CHILDREN by river.
JOHN looks up from pebble-skimming and loosens his tie.
His brow is furrowed.
He skims another pebble.
They unwillingly get moving.
Both women set off, WILLA to River, ICEY towards GROUP.
We TRACK after ICEY.
PREACHER approaches.
ICEY, crossing him, gives him a little shove towards WILLA and a coy.
We FOLLOW her to the women who are busying themselves with the fudge.
JOHN and PEARL approach.
He looks hard towards WILLA and PREACHER o.s.from JOHN'S VIEWPOINT in tableau of decorous courtship, framed by heavy domestic bodies.
They sit by the water; drooling willows; almost in travesty of a romantic scene.
His head goes slantwise and he smiles oddly.
He watches intently towards his mother; PEARL holds his hand.
In BACKGROUND WALT looks sheepish.
All look towards her.
WILLA is standing, beckoning JOHN.
They start towards their mother.
The others agree with her.
As JOHN and PEARL (with DOLL) come shyly up.
She is radiant.
He desperately conceals his reaction; he thinks BEN has betrayed him.
He now conceals his new reaction.
WILLA touches PREACHER'S hand, warmly.
She walks away towards ICEY and the WOMEN.
JOHN moves to stand in front of him; PEARL, to stand beside PREACHER, with the DOLL.
From JOHN'S eye-level; as JOHN steps in front of him and PEARL beside him.
The hand named LOVE and the hand named HATE come in to straighten the necktie.
JOHN looks down.
He looks up and sees:PREACHER, in close-up, hands busy o.s.; PEARL, with doll; and between them, in BACKGROUND, WILLA.
She is now running fast towards ICEY, who walks towards her with arms outstretched.
Behind them, the group of WOMEN.
Birdie sits beside his open door, strumming a guitar and singing.
The scene is lamplighted from within.
Ben's skiff is inverted on trestles in FOREGROUND.
At start of scene we see only JOHN's feet; he's under the skiff, examining it.
After three lines of song he comes out from under, and lounges against the skiff, tracing a tarry seam with his forefinger.
Through rest of scene, Birdie picks lazily at his guitar.
JOHN leaves the SHOT.
As he runs past SPOON'S, looking in, he is curious.
ICEY embraces WILLA or waltzes her around; WALT looks on, pleased.
He hurries away from us towards home.
In the otherwise dark house, one window is lighted.
JOHN enters the SHOT, his back to us.
Seeing the lighted window, he hesitates.
Silent pause, listening; then he walks cautiously towards us.
A tall, narrow shooting-frame; right and left thirds of screen are black.
We SHOOT from inside the screen door.
JOHN crosses the porch and softly opens the door and enters on tiptoe and pauses, close to us, in the dark hallway, listening sharp.
Relieved, but puzzled, he tiptoes along towards the rear of the hallway in CLOSE-UP as we PULL AWAY.
We bring in the bottom of the stairs.
JOHN gasps, peering, and looks up.
PREACHER looks at JOHN; JOHN sinks onto the edge of a chair.
PREACHER sits opposite.
A bar of light from door falls across PREACHER'S face.
From JOHN, just a questioning helpless reaction.
JOHN is still.
He gawks at his own folly, covers his mouth with his hand and looks up at PREACHER stiffens, relaxes, and chuckles softly.
JOHN starts for the stairs.
It stands vibrating, then moves out of shot with receding engine sound o.s., disclosing: ICEY'S skirts in BACKGROUND.
They are awfully spic-and-span; they even wear shoes.
They wave after the car, bewilderedly.
She hustles out of shot.
His hand clamps over her mouth.
She struggles and whimpers.
His hand comes up; she puts out her own, expecting a loving hand-clasp; but PREACHER points to the window.
Startled, then again tender, she moves to:She adjusts the shade, looking always towards the bed.
She smiles maternally.
As we PULL BACK and PAN into FULL SHOT OF BED she comes to the bed and sits on the edge and slips off her mules.
PREACHER'S back is to her.
With a sounding of bedsprings PREACHER turns.
His voice is quiet and cold.
WILLA puts her face down to the pillow and moans.
PREACHER snaps on a harsh bare bulb at center of room.
She obeys.
WILLA hesitates.
WILLA walks to meet her image in the mirror; her eyes on.
Her head drops, facing the mirror.
WILLA is in HEAD CLOSE-UP; bulb hangs at center; PREACHER, in his nightshirt, is beyond it.
Her mouth trembles; she can't talk.
WILLA just opens her mouth.
He stands watching her for a moment; then he snaps off the light and gets into bed.
WILLA, in the darkness, does not move.
She folds her hands in prayer and lifts her eyes.
It lies face down on arbor bricks, its back wide open; money spilling out.
A little breeze toys with the money.
Then we hear a snipping sound o.s.
TILT UPWARD into.
She sits at the end of the grape-arbor.
She finishes cutting a skirted paperdoll out of a hundred dollar bill and lays it down beside a male hundred-dollar paper-doll.
She pats the dolls.
PEARL starts guiltily and looks towards him, scrambling money together.
JOHN'S footsteps o.s.
As he stoops toward her, dumb with horror.
She continues to gather the money together.
He stands at far end of arbor.
PREACHER'S watch-chain gleams.
The shot SLOWLY CLOSES DOWN on it and becomes still.
We see the paper-dolls blow past him.
JOHN starts to laugh uncontrollably.
His helpless reaction.
He holds out his hands to her; she comes to his lap, dropping her doll at his feet.
JOHN turns his back and looks out the window beside bureau.
JOHN throws the hairbrush, striking PREACHER's head.
He is sure now PEARL knows.
As PREACHER's hand locks the door.
WILLA is in outdoor clothes and is not dressed for work in the parlor.
WILLA enters, her back to us; she stops.
She smiles benignly.
WILLA keeps smiling.
Still smiling, shaking her head as in disbelief, WILLA makes for house as PEARL screams.
Narrow screen, same set-up as in earlier corridor scene, PREACHER and WILLA.
Their eyes meet.
He turns.
WILLA is calm and immobile with the ecstasy of a martyr.
PREACHER hits her across the mouth.
He has heard the VOICE and starts to move out of CLOSE SHOT.
He has moved over to the coat on back of chair.
His hand goes into the pocket and brings the knife out.
(It is the same coat, and pocket, as in the wedding-night scene.).
He pulls down the blind.
He moves toward the bed.
INSERT -- PREACHER's HAND AND KNIFE It clicks open.
As he raises his arm to strike.
He is scrubbing out an ice cream container on the back porch.
He looks up and moves towards her.
WALT ENTERS SHOT with pipe.
They enter the kitchen.
WALT clucks his tongue.
WALT moves towards kitchen cabinet.
He pours, snaps it down; weak-defiance.
He looks towards o.s.
He sits at a table, his back towards us, mumbling over his Bible.
He closes his Bible and turns to them with weepy eyes and a brave little smile.
ICEY smiles sideways.
ICEY is happy to let her mouth fall open and let out a gasp.
We PAN, with slowly streaming weeds, and bring in WILLA in close profile; the current, coming from behind her, drifts her long hair across her throat.
She is in profile as before.
It descends, and catches on the windshield, and the line tautens; then tugs.
We start to follow the line up.
We continue to follow the line up, and bring in, close, the stern of BEN HARPER's skiff.
He sits back, tugging unconcernedly at the line.
Then he leans over to see what's wrong.
As he peers over side.
We start moving before he does.
LOW CAMERA; full figure.
We TILT to frame him from the waist downward and follow close behind him.
As he leaves the tree and walks along the side of the house; we TILT DOWNWARD and CLOSE IN, to follow only his feet; he steps past a tiny cellar window and we PAN and TIGHTEN IN CLOSE ON IT, into.
Their noses are flat against the glass; their cheeks touch; their window isn't quite big enough to hold both their heads.
It is on the ground; we don't see their chins.
They look towards the departed PREACHER.
JOHN has taken charge.
He speaks very quietly, but calmly and cheerfully, as to an invalid.
He starts down the rustling coal-heap, helping PEARL down.
They have achieved the cellar floor.
PREACHER looks under the bed.
o.s., PREACHER'S footsteps come down stairs; JOHN leads PEARL carefully past a rake, a hoe, and a shelf-prop and they crouch down into beside an apple barrel.
PREACHER'S footsteps cross kitchen o.s.
Both look sharp towards cellar door o.s.
The door opens; PREACHER'S head, carrying a candle in holder; a white-washed wall and stairs are lighted.
He clop-clops nearly to the bottom of the stairs.
ICEY'S voice cuts cheerfully across his descent.
ICEY clucks her tongue o.s.
She appears at head of stairs.
Her voice crackles with authority.
A short pause; then the children, covered with coal-dust, emerge into the light and climb the stairs.
JOHN'S head is hung in defeat.
As they enter the kitchen we PULL BACK.
JOHN looks to PEARL and we PAN HER IN as PREACHER'S hand named LOVE moves through her locks.
We PAN with PREACHER and ICEY as they move towards the door.
He watches ICEY leave, o.s.
ICEY goes away along path outside.
PREACHER, his back to us, watches her a moment, then turns.
Wondering what to do next.
We begin with HEAD CLOSE-UP of BIRDIE as he rocks, and PULL BACK He is rocking; and drunk.
A bottle stands beside the picture.
He turns and speaks to the picture.
His hands grip the edge of the chest on either side of the picture, which we now see.
BIRDIE picks up the bottle.
His hand and the liquor tremble.
The bottle falls from his hand onto its side on the edge of the chest.
The reverse angle of the opening shot.
BIRDIE rocks heavily; liquor gurgles from bottle to floor.
PREACHER sits at head of table.
JOHN stands to PREACHER'S right, around corner of table; he remains expressionless and immobile, until he speaks.
The table is loaded with good food.
PREACHER, well-fed and at leisure, dabs his mouth delicately with his napkin, folds it, puts it in a ring, and folds his hands.
He waits.
PEARL frowns and puts her finger in her mouth; she remembers he twisted her arm.
He slaps the table; his eyes crackle.
PEARL starts to snivel.
He brings out the knife.
PEARL shakes her head for no.
He touches the spring; the blade flicks open.
He lays the open knife on the table.
PEARL thinks the knife is a toy and crosses behind JOHN to pick it up.
Her mouth quivers; a large tear brims in her eyes.
PEARL sniffles and wipes her eyes with her free fist.
PREACHER'S EYES CRINKLE and he turns to PEARL, smiling brightly.
His eyes snap back to JOHN and his voice is like a whip.
His eyes never leave JOHN'S.
PEARL gapes up at JOHN as he speaks.
As he gets up, cellar door in BACKGROUND.
They cross him, towards the door.
The CHILDREN precede PREACHER, who carries a candle in holder.
PEARL is gaping at JOHN'S lie.
JOHN is looking left and right, casing the joint.
Now they are at bottom of stairs.
JOHN sees PEARL'S expression and takes her hand.
He squeezes PEARL'S hand harder, and points.
JOHN points out a place beneath a shelf laden with Mason jars; it is at the most distant part of the cellar from the stairs.
PREACHER starts toward it, leaving them at foot of stairs, then turns, catching JOHN'S ruse.
He shepherds them ahead of him.
They arrive beneath the shelf.
PREACHER sets the candle on a barrel near the shelf-prop and sinks to his knees below shot as PEARL gapes at JOHN and JOHN looks stony.
She seems about to speak.
His hands sweep dust and expose concrete.
He straightens on his knees and turns to the children in close BACKGROUND.
His sincerity is beyond doubt.
He takes his knife out, and springs it open.
She starts to sob.
PREACHER is astounded.
His hands fall away from JOHN.
He leans back against the wall and talks through laughter.
His eyes are all over the place.
PREACHER makes a lunge across JOHN for the doll; JOHN ducking under his arm, pulls PEARL forward with his left hand; he turns backwards and with his free hand, in one movement, knocks over the candle and pulls out the support on the shelf.
Jars shower over him; one crowns him and breaks, shedding guck, which he wipes from his eyes.
They start up the stairs.
He makes one step forward, steps on a rolling jar, and falls.
They are near the top of the stairs.
JOHN slips and they nearly fall backward.
As JOHN recovers, PREACHER enters the shot, his back to us.
The children get through the open door as PREACHER reaches top.
JOHN slams the door, catching PREACHER'S hand.
PREACHER screams.
JOHN'S astonished eyes peer through the crack in the door; the door loosens; PREACHER yanks his hand loose and sucks it, groaning; the door slams to; the bolt is shot home.
He snarls like the Big Bad Wolf.
PEARL, dangling her doll, cries.
JOHN panting, leans against wall by door.
JOHN is wondering what to do now.
A pretty, pastoral shot of the house in light mist, as they run across and leave the shot.
Before they disappear, we hear PREACHER'S fists hammering against the door.
We stay on the house at leisure; we hear him lunging, shoulder to door; we begin to hear squeaking of hinges and splintering of wood.
An ultra romantic image of shelter and peace.
Frogs or river noises o.s., then the rattle of running footsteps.
The children center, their backs to us, sprinting towards the boat.
Light mist as in previous shot.
We shoot over BESS'S turned photograph and over BIRDIE, close, passed out in his rocker.
The children run through open door in BACKGROUND and JOHN runs up to BIRDIE.
He grabs BIRDIE'S shoulder; BIRDIE half-rises, and falls face down on floor.
BIRDIE rears on one elbow and looks up at him.
He falls face down again.
JOHN grabs BIRDIE by one ear, turning his face up.
He looks up earnestly at JOHN.
He masterfully takes PEARL by the hand and leads her into the night.
We shoot from the river.
They struggle through the sumac and pokeberry weeds at edge of river, towards skiff, whose prow, tethered to willow, we see throughout this un-moving shot, at our extreme right.
When they come opposite skiff -- which is a few yards out from shore.
PEARL, frankly bored, dangling her doll, is yawning.
JOHN, as he finishes undoing rope from a willow root, looks up and around, checking on pursuit.
On the bank above, it is huge in the mist.
A man is going along a river lane on horseback.
It is PREACHER; he walks the horse away from us.
We descend to a poor riverside farmhouse; JOHN and PEARL tether a boat in front of it.
They are eating hot boiled potatoes.
A glance at JOHN and PEARL, and they turn away towards lane in BACKGROUND.
JOHN and PEARL proceed towards the house.
We shoot from within open door of kitchen.
JOHN and PEARL advance to edge of porch.
A TIRED FARM WOMAN stands by door, within.
We shoot OVER her.
Woman leaves shot briefly (we HOLD on CHILDREN) She re-enters and goes to them with a bowl of steaming potatoes.
They take hands-ful, and make to eat.
They turn away and walk towards boat.
She looks after them.
PREACHER stands behind the flames; in FOREGROUND an OLD MAN sits profiled on a box.
Other workers, all men, sit around fire.
Short silence, as the other men look at PREACHER without liking.
Then the old man spits into the fire.
A spurt of steam as spit strikes.
He comes down to water.
Full landscape in BACKGROUND.
We shoot OVER two sitting rabbits as they watch, their ears up.
The skiff passes.
PEARL plays with doll JOHN unsnarls line.
The skiff passes.
We PAN in a big barn near the river, then a lighted house; willows along shore.
JOHN re-sets his oar.
They angle towards us for the shore.
They reach top of the bank.
Corner of barn and lighted window in BACKGROUND.
A wire bird-cage hangs close to the shade, silhouetted.
On the perch, a canary.
After a moment the CHILDREN enter, backs to us, and stop, looking.
Window-light on faces, song over.
He vanishes beyond trees, his singing more distant.
He wakes her.
He vanishes; scuttling of children in hay, o.s.; dogs quiet; his song dies.
Hand in hand, they hurry out of barn and, as we PAN, along its side, towards River, o.s.
JOHN steers through turbulent, moonlit water.
Low moon.
Blank, calm water; the skiff enters and passes full length below us, the CHILDREN asleep in it; blank water again; again the fox barks.
The skiff nears a sand-bar.
The prow softly grates against sand.
TILTING UPWARD.
Distant; medium; the near; roosters crow o.s.
He looks to PEARL o.s.
PEARL is picking daisies.
Beyond the fence, a woman, RACHEL COOPER, appears.
She carries a berry- basket on her arm.
JOHN scrambles up, grabs an oar, and holds it defensively.
PEARL freezes.
They hesitate.
They still hesitate.
She breaks off a switch and comes for them, squishing through the mud.
She surrounds them and drives them like geese up the bank.
They move across the meadow like a nursery frieze.
She tweaks with her switch.
As she goes near PEARL'S calves, JOHN turns.
Three crouching figures pick tomatoes beyond a low white fence; Rachel's house in background.
RUBY, thirteen, pops her head up like a rifle-target.
Clary, eleven, pops up.
Mary, four, pops up.
She has JOHN and PEARL by their napes.
The three girls enter, their backs to us, carrying baskets of tomatoes.
She holds JOHN and PEARL very firmly, inspecting baskets, across gate of fence.
She opens the gate, pushes the Harper children through, shuts the gate, and walks between them, her back to us.
The children hesitate.
She turns to them and stops.
She looks them up and down.
If we saw her face, her lips would be pursed and working with anger.
His eyes go down to her feet.
He, and we, start to examine her from foot to head; for this is our heroine at last.
from JOHN'S eye-level.
We TILT SLOWLY UP her height.
She wears man's shoes, heavy with mud; a rough skirt; a shapeless sweater hangs over her shoulders; she is in her middle sixties and wears a man's old hat.
Her face says.
For no reason at all he feels he has come home.
RACHEL mercilessly scrubs JOHN; JOHN doesn't like it; RUBY washes PEARL with a cloth.
Hating the scrubbing.
He breaks away.
JOHN dodges behind a bush, RACHEL in hot pursuit.
RACHEL'S head bobs up and down above the bush; we hear the unmistakable sound of a female hand on a child's bottom.
All carry baskets.
RACHEL charges along at the head of the procession.
A CATTLE DEALER strolls the other way.
She keeps walking.
They walk in silence.
The WAITRESS hurries away.
She dodges past a car.
she follows WAITRESS, then LOVERS in car, with her eyes.
She takes in the LOVERS.
She sighs, angry at all women, herself included, and turns away.
We are at the door of a GROCERY STORE.
The GROCER is on his doorstep.
She starts into store with the GROCER.
RACHEL and GROCER come up to counter.
She stands with her market-basket, reacting to wolf whistles o.s.; she is seeking the world.
RUBY gestures RACHEL'S nearness.
RUBY nods.
He turns and goes; RUBY, with an eye to LOAFER, turns and follows.
JOHN has entered in BACKGROUND.
PEARL holds the doll to her, and JOHN moves in quietly to her side.
They stand together, as so often before.
As he turns around.
As she continues, she puts aside the book and takes up her mending.
She mends for a few moments.
JOHN crosses behind her and off, towards door.
He approaches with two apples.
He gives her an apple.
JOHN makes a move; he slowly and tenderly reaches out his hand and lays his fingers on her knuckles.
Our heroine would like to thank the Lord openly, but she knows she must not show her feelings; she speaks gruffly.
Maybe we see -- though JOHN does not -- the thanksgiving in her eyes.
Her head and shoulders from behind as she walks down the neon-lighted street; drugstore and loafers in b.g.; jazz music o.s.
Our two loafers lounge on a bench.
RUBY approaches.
He gets up and starts towards RUBY, who catches his eye.
She turns to a magazine stand and fingers a magazine, awaiting LOAFER, who approaches in BACKGROUND.
They are lurid, tawdry fan and pin-up magazines.
PREACHER enters, between RUBY and LOAFER, and turns to RUBY into CLOSE TWO-SHOT.
LOAFER pauses in BACKGROUND.
She looks up at him admiringly; then to LOAFERS; back to.
RUBY is finishing her soda.
This is a familiar clue to PREACHER.
She nods.
It slides into his knife pocket.
She looks after him, clasping the magazine under her chin.
Her hero strides away into darkness.
Gazing after him.
RUBY collapses face down over RACHEL'S lap and sobs, as we.
They weep together.
She starts making up RUBY'S hair like that of a young woman.
RUBY nods.
RUBY shrugs.
Seeing PREACHER, she drops two eggs.
He tethers his horse and, as we PAN and TRACK on behind him, walks to the bottom of the steps; RUBY moves into side of SHOT: beyond PREACHER, RACHEL stands behind her screen door, hands folded under apron.
RACHEL'S VIEWPOINT, through screen.
PREACHER'S face twitches with emotion.
He breaks out into great thankful sobs.
RUBY minces off around the side of the house.
He wipes off tears with the heel of his left hand, watching her.
She is.
He holds up the right hand.
All the CHILDREN enter, around corner of house.
As they move in, RACHEL replies.
By now JOHN is on the top step beside RACHEL.
One of his hands holds on to her skirt, as if he were pulling her towards him.
His eyes never leave hers.
All the CHILDREN freeze, PEARL is on ground, just beyond JOHN.
He looks up at RACHEL.
JOHN looks deep into RACHEL'S eyes.
She wants the situation clarified.
She takes this in; JOHN has sold her.
She looks to PREACHER o.s.
PREACHER gets to his feet.
The open knife is in his hand.
As we see it, the gun-barrel twitches.
PREACHER backs away towards his horse, bouncing the knife lightly in his hand.
As he mounts his horse we.
She sits in profile, her gun across her knees.
In a big bed.
RUBY sits up, listening to song o.s.
We PAN to PREACHER outside.
We see him through window.
He sits hunched on a stump.
After a moment we see her mouth open; and either to comfort herself or to drown out PREACHER'S voice, she joins in the hymn.
A descending candle moves past a window; RACHEL and PREACHER sing o.s.
Over back of RACHEL'S head.
The song ends.
RUBY enters SHOT carrying a candle.
Its light blacks out the window-glass.
RACHEL looks up.
She blows out the candle.
We see through the window.
PREACHER has gone.
She stands up.
RUBY leaves the SHOT.
RACHEL moves towards window.
RACHEL looks up.
They look at her with complete trust.
She turns round and walks back to her chair; CHILDREN'S eyes always on her.
Her eyes glittering as she turns to look towards us.
The clock starts striking three.
RACHEL looks to sound o.s.
In the mirror, a shadow ducks.
RACHEL gets up, gun at port, and faces into the darkness.
Eyes on the darkness, she bends low to the CHILDREN.
They scatter out of shot; RUBY lingers.
RUBY obeys in a trance.
RACHEL, gun at ready, looks into the darkness.
and PREACHER'S satanic face, and his hand lifting the open knife, rise swiftly from floor.
She fires off her gun.
PREACHER staggers out and runs yelping with pain into the barn.
They huddle on the stairs in reverent silence.
RACHEL, her gun slung sportily under one arm, talks into wall phone which hangs just within the box stairway.
RACHEL sits on the screened porch, awake, gun on knees.
JOHN sits on floor, asleep, his head leaning against her.
Barn in BACKGROUND.
Sunrise.
Same position.
JOHN awakes.
They get up and start into kitchen.
They lie huddled in calm sleep.
JOHN and RACHEL watch a moment.
They start for the stove.
RACHEL puts her gun beside the stove, ready to hand, and picks up a coffee-pot; JOHN puts kindling in stove.
JOHN looks at her a moment.
They look towards the sound.
We SHOOT OVER two TROOPERS.
Sirens loud, they rapidly approach RACHEL'S house as RACHEL, without gun, holding JOHN'S hand, comes down to fence.
Presently, the other CHILDREN hurry out of house behind.
The car brakes.
The TROOPERS, fanning wide, advance towards barn.
RACHEL and the CHILDREN are grouped a short distance behind them.
The barn door gapes black.
Short pause; then PREACHER appears.
TROOPERS close in on PREACHER, from before and behind, exactly as for BEN'S arrest.
The same sickly look, as at BEN'S arrest.
One TROOPER smacks the back of PREACHER'S head with a pistol- barrel.
The DOLL has burst open and the money has spilled over PREACHER.
Now two TROOPERS gently lift JOHN away.
RACHEL lifts him in her arms; she turns towards house.
She carries JOHN towards the house.
His head hangs back over her arm.
Perhaps ten faces.
Most are frenetic.
Our two LOAFERS are having fun.
General hubbub o.s.
A gavel o.s.
He looks to sound of gavel.
The hubbub and the gaveling stop.
JOHN looks over his shoulder in same direction as the gavel.
JOHN looks at the finger.
Short pause.
The LAWYER'S hands gently help him from chair.
LAWYER'S hands consign JOHN to RACHEL.
Above JOHN'S head, by winding and holding to ear, RACHEL pantomimes a watch.
Everyone in the cafe stands up.
RACHEL gathers her parcels.
ICEY rushes to door and opens it.
She turns to crowd.
ICEY shouts into the cafe.
ICEY turns to the street mob.
RACHEL hurries her CHILDREN to door.
ICEY leaves door to yell at mob.
As RACHEL leaves SHOT, the CASHIER shuts and locks the door.
MARY and CLARY come out first and start walking to our left.
RACHEL comes out and hurries off to our right, followed by JOHN, holding PEARL'S hand.
We PAN to MARY and CLARY.
They turn and we PAN with them as they hurry after RACHEL, and we bring in RACHEL, charging away from us with her brood hustling to keep up.
ICEY carries a torch.
She is flanked by rabid faces and by smiling LOAFERS, one of whom carries an axe.
As she speaks, a MAN rushes up to WALT and gives him a rope.
We PAN RACHEL and CHILDREN past this street and they hurry towards RUBY, who stands alone in BACKGROUND, facing the jail.
In BACKGROUND, RACHEL and CHILDREN hurry towards her.
Hearing the approach of RACHEL'S GROUP, RUBY turns the back of her head towards us.
Now there are no mob voices; only the ominous sound of fifty-odd people marching in step.
RACHEL firmly takes RUBY'S arm and drags her off in our direction.
RACHEL shoos MARY and CLARY ahead of her.
JOHN and PEARL flank RACHEL, clinging to her wide skirts.
RUBY, nearest us, keeps looking back over her shoulder.
We TRACK them along side of JAIL to rear of JAIL.
Auto engine starts up o.s.
The car jumps fast out of SHOT and we PAN PAST BART and CENTER RACHEL and GROUP, walking fast away from us.
She goes into the house.
It is decorated for Christmas.
Rachel enters; the four girls stand in line, packages ready; JOHN stands in b.g., in doorway to next room.
Their hands hold packages up to her.
She takes a package.
Embarrassed, JOHN leaves the shot.
From a fruit bowl, he selects the biggest apple, shines it on his shirt, wraps it in the doily under his bowl, opens a drawer and gets out a clip clothespin, clips his package, and leaves shot.
As he enters with present.
RUBY and CLARY are standing aside; MARY and PEARL hold up a third pot-holder.
Both nod.
She opens it.
RUBY opens it quickly; it is a cheap costume-jewelry flower- spray.
RUBY and RACHEL kiss like grown women and RUBY goes to join the others.
She turns to her stove and is framed by Christmas garland in b.g.; banging pots about and stirring; praying as she works, which is the best way to pray.
In BACKGROUND, the girls run upstairs, their new dresses over their arms.
RACHEL glances over her shoulder.
JOHN stands in next room, looking at something in his hand.
We see he holds a watch.
He looks like any boy, rich or poor, with his first watch.
JOHN gives her a burning, proud smile.
She turns back, face to us, and goes on with her stirring.
JOHN goes off towards the staircase to join the girls; then turns back.
They stare at him.
An awkward beat.
Jerry enters through the kitchen door, in a parka and a red plaid Elmer Fudd hat.
He is carrying a bag of groceries which he deposits on the kitchen counter.
Jerry enters, pulling off his plaid cap.
Wade Gustafson is mid-sixtyish, vigorous, with a full head of gray hair.
Twisting perspective shows that it is an aerial shot of a two-lane highway, bordered by snowfields.
The highway carries one moving car.
Carl Showalter is driving.
Grimsrud gives him a sour look.
After a long beat.
Gaear Grimsrud stares him blankly
Jerry is sitting in his glassed-in salesman's cubicle just off the showroom floor.
On the other side of his desk sit an irate customer and his wife.
He rises, and, as he leaves.
The couple watch him going nearby cubicle.
Jerry sits staring at his lap.
Carl Showalter and Gaear Grimsrud are in the twin beds having sex with two truck-stop hookers.
She picks up the phone.
She holds the phone away and calls.
He takes the phone.
Jerry wanders through the service area where cars are being worked on.
He stops by an Indian in blue jeans who is looking at the underside of a car that sits on a hydraulic lift with a cage light hanging off its innards.
Carl is driving.
Grimsrud stares out front.
Grimsrud smokes, gazing out the window.
He is driving
He is on the phone.
A morning-show host in an apron stands behind a counter on a kitchen set.
Jean sets down her coffee cup and rises.
As the two men enter, a door at the far side is slamming shut.
Jean, sobbing, frantically pushes at buttons on the princess phone.
The phone pops out of her hands, jangles across the tile floor, smashes against the door and then bounces away, its cord ripped free.
Jean crosses to a high window above the toilet and throws it open.
Jean glances back as she steps up from the toilet seat to the tank.
The groaning of the door ends with the wood around its knob splintering and the knob itself falling out onto the floor.
The door swings open.
The door creaks, moving as one piece in its frame.
Grimsrud and Carl enter.
Room empty, window open.
Carl strides to the window and hoists himself out.
Grimsrud opens the medicine cabinet and delicately taps aside various bottles and tubes, seeking the proper unguent.
He finds a salve but after a moment sets it down, noticing something in the mirror.
The shower curtain is drawn around the tub.
As he reaches for the curtain, it explodes outward, animated by thrashing limbs.
Jean, screaming, tangled in the curtain, rips it off its rings and stumbles out into the bedroom.
Jean rushes toward the door, cloaked by the shower curtain but awkwardly trying to push it off.
Still thrashing, Jean crashes against the upstairs railing, trips on the curtain and falls, thumping crazily down the stairs.
Grimsrud follows.
Grimsrud trots down after her.
Wade sits behind his desk; another man rises as Jerry enters.
Stan Grossman shakes his hand.
Wade scowls, looks at Stan.
Wade is angry.
We are high and wide on the office building's parking lot.
Jerry emerges wrapped in a parka, his arms sticking stiffly out at his sides, his breath vaporizing.
He goes to his car,
opens its front door,
pulls out a red plastic scraper
and starts methodically scraping off the thin crust of ice that has developed on his windshield.
The scrape-scrape-scrape sound carries in the frigid air.
Jerry goes into a frenzy, banging the scraper against the windshield and the hood of his car.
The tantrum passes.
Scrape-scrape-scrape - he goes back to work on the wind-shield.
The door swings open and Jerry edges in, looking about, holding a sack of groceries.
He shuts the door.
He has already seen the shower curtain on the floor.
Jerry stands in wide shot, hands on hips, looking down at a telephone.
After a motionless beat he picks up the phone and punches in a number.
It is a flannel-shirt woodsman carrying a double-edged axe over one shoulder.
As we hear the rumble of an approaching car, the continuing tilt and boom down brings us down the woodsman's body to a pedestal.
A sweep of headlights illuminates a sign on the pedestal:
The headlights sweep off and a car hums past and on into the background.
The two-lane highway is otherwise empty.
Carl drives.
Jean lies bound and curled on the back seat underneath a tarpaulin.
From the back seat we hear whimpering.
Grimsrud smokes and gazes out the window.
Grimsrud turns to look.
Grimsrud stares at him, then turns back to the window.
At a loud WHOOP Carl starts and looks back out the rear window.
Fifty yards behind a state trooper has turned on his gumballs.
Carl looks up at the rear-view mirror.
Grimsrud looks at him.
Both cars have stopped.
He looks into the back seat as the car bounces and slows on the gravel shoulder.
The trooper is stopped on the shoulder just behind them, writing in his citation book.
Carl watches.
Grimsrud stares at Carl.
The trooper walks up the shoulder, one hand resting lightly on top of his holster, his breath steaming in the cold night air.
Carl opens his window as the trooper draws up.
The trooper scans car interior, taking his time.
Grimsrud smokes and gazes calmly out his window.
He reaches for his wallet.
He forces a laugh.
The policeman thoughtfully pats the fifty into the bill-fold and hands the bill-fold back into the car.
Carl's nervous smile fades.
There is a whimpering sound.
The policeman hesitates.
The policeman leans forward into the car, listening.
Grimsrud reaches across Carl, grabs the trooper by the hair and slams his head down onto the car door.
With his free hand, Grimsrud pops the glove compartment.
He brings a gun out and reaches across Carl and shoots at the back of the trooper's head.
Jean screams.
He releases the policeman.
The policeman's head slides out the window and his body flops back onto the street.
Carl looks out at the cop in the road.
He gets out.
Carl leans down to hoist up the body.
Headlights appear: an oncoming car.
Grimsrud notices.
The car approaches, slowing.
Carl, with the trooper's body hoisted halfway up, is frozen in the headlights.
We just make out the silhouettes of two occupants in front.
Grimsrud slides into the driver's seat.
The car accelerates and roars past and away.
He squeals into a U-turn, the driver's door slamming shut with his spin.
Grimsrud takes the cigarette from his mouth and stubs it in his ashtray.
Small red tail lights fishtail up ahead.
In the back seat, Jean starts screaming.
The red tail lights ahead start to turn.
With a distant crunching sound, they disappear.
The headlights now show only empty road, starting to turn the car.
Grimsrud is not gaining on the tail lights.
Grimsrud frowns and slows.
The wrecked car's headlights shine off into a snowfield abutting the highway.
Grimsrud apply brakes.
Jean slides off the back seat and thumps into the leg-well.
His headlights show the car up ahead off the road, crumpled around a telephone pole, having failed to hold a turn.
Grimsrud sweeps his gun off the front seat, opens his door and gets out.
A young man in a down parka is limping across the snowfield, away from the wrecked car.
Grimsrud strides calmly out after the injured boy.
He raises his gun and fires.
With a poof of feathers, a hole opens up in the boy's back and he pitches into the snow.
Grimsrud walks up to the wreck and peers in its half-open door.
A young woman is trapped inside the twisted wreckage, and got injured.
Grimsrud raises his gun and fires.
A blue-winged teal in flight over a swampy marshland.
The room in which it hangs is dark.
The continuing track reveals a couple in bed, sleeping.
The man, fortyish, pajama-clad, is big, and big-bellied.
His mouth is agape.
He snores.
His arms are flung over a woman in her thirties, wearing a nightie, mouth also open, not snoring.
We hold for a long beat on their regular breathing and snoring.
The woman stirs.
She reaches for the phone.
She hangs up.
The man stirs and clears his throat with a long deep rumble.
The man sits up, gazes stupidly about.
He clears his throat with another deep rumble.
Leavings of a huge plate of eggs, ham, toast.
Wider, we see Marge now wearing a beige police uniform.
She wears a heavy belt holding a revolver, walkie-talkie and various other jangling police impedimenta.
Norm is in a dressing gown.
As she struggles into a parka.
Marge is making her way down the icy front stoop to her prowler.
Off-screen we hear the front door open.
Marge stamps the snow off her shoes.
The reverse shows Marge approaching from her own squad car.
Two police cars and an ambulance sit idling at the side of the road, a pair of men inside each car.
The first car's driver door opens and a figure in a parka emerges, holding two styrofoam cups.
He hands her one of the cups of coffee.
Marge looks around as they start walking.
Marge is peering into the car.
Marge looks up from the car.
Marge looks around at the road.
She gets up, sweeping snow from her knees.
Marge's prowler is parked nearby.
She calls up to the road.
Marge is on her hands and knees by a body down in the ditch, again looking at footprints in the snow.
In the foreground is the head of the state trooper, facing us.
Peering at it from behind, still on her hands and knees, is Marge.
She gets up, clapping the snow off her hands, and climbs out of the ditch.
She is looking at the prowler, which still idles on the shoulder.
Marge is driving; Lou sits next to her.
Lou gazes out the window, thinking.
Jerry and Stan stand bundled in their parkas and galoshes near a row of beached vehicles.
Wade sits behind the wheel of an idling Lincoln, waiting for Stan.
There is a tap at the horn from Wade, and Stan gets into the Lincoln.
Jerry stares down at his laptop.
It is a lakeside cabin surrounded by white.
A brown Ciera with dealer plates is pulling into the drive.
Grimsrud climbs out of the passenger seat as Carl climbs out of the driver's.
Grimsrud opens the back door and, with an arm on her elbow, helps Jean out.
She has her hands tied behind her and a black hood over her head.
With a cry, she swings her elbow out of Grimsrud's grasp and lurches away across the front lawn.
Grimsrud moves to retrieve her but Carl, grinning, lays a hand on his shoulder.
She slides the paper sack toward him.
He looks inside.
The bottom of the sack is full of fat, crawling earthworms.
Marge's prowler is parked in an otherwise empty lot.
Marge sits talking with two young women at one end of an elevated dance platform.
The club, not yet open for business, is deserted.
With one last bang we cut.
In extreme close-up an insect is lugging a worm.
A pull back from the screen reveals that we are in Marge's house.
Marge and Norm are watching television in bed.
After a long beat, silence except for the TV, Marge murmurs, still looking at the set:
Marge gropes in the dark.
He sits in and picks up his phone.
Jerry sits dumbly.
He angrily snatches it up.
He goes back to his food.
Gary hands her a flimsy.
Marge takes it with one hand and looks, her other hand frozen with a forkful of food.
Norm, who has been eating steadily throughout, looks over at Marge with mild interest.
He stares for a beat as he finishes chewing, and them swallows and says.
Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit around the kitchen table.
The scene is harshly toplit by a hanging fixture.
On the table the remains of coffee and a cinnamon filbert ring are present
Marge is at the reception desk.
The clerk types into a computer console.
Marge is on a public phone.
The brown Ciera enters and drives lazy S-curves around the few snow-covered cars parked on the roof of the lot.
It stops by one car and Carl emerges.
He quickly scans the lot, then kneels in the snow at the back of the parked car and starts unscrewing its license plate.
Carl pulls up and hands the attendant his ticket.
The attendant frowns uncomprehendingly at the ticket.
The attendant is still puzzled.
The attendant doesn't say anything.
Carl glances back, starts digging for money.
He is peeling off one dollar bills.
Bewildered, he looks about, then asks a mechanic passing by, his voice raised over the din of the shop.
The mechanic points.
Jerry looks.
Jerry stares, swallows.
Marge and Shep face each other at the other end of the floor in a grimy and cluttered glassed-in cubicle.
Marge and Shep silently talk.
Shep says nothing.
Shep stares at her.
Jerry is worriedly pacing behind his desk.
Marge has stucked in the door.
Marge plops into the chair opposite him.
Jerry stares at her, his mouth open.
As Marge rises, Jerry looks blankly down at the papers on the desk in front of him.
Marge enters.
She looks around the bar, a rather characterless, lowlit meeting place for business people.
It is a bald, paunching man of about Marge's age, rising from a booth halfway back.
His features are broad, friendly, Asian-American.
A waitress meets them at the table.
Again she glances about.
He is sliding out of his side of the booth and easing in next to Marge.
Marge clinks it.
The reverse shows a disappearing waiter and the backs of many, many people sitting at tables between us and the very distant stage.
Jose Feliciano, very small, performs on a spotlit stool.
The acoustics are poor.
Carl grimaces.
Carl is humping the escort.
The escort is grabbed and flung out of bed.
Shep slaps him hard, forehand, backhand.
He hauls him up -.
After hitting him several times, She yanks Carl's belt out of his dangling pants and strangles him with it.
Carl gurgles.
Shep knees Carl repeatedly, then dumps him onto the floor and starts whipping him with the buckle end of the belt.
His face is deeply bruised and cut.
Finally, through the phone.
Jerry is at the kitchen phone.
Through the door to the dining room we see Wade picking up an extension.
The line goes dead.
A door slams off-screen.
Wade, briefcase in hand, gets into his Cadillac, slams the door and peels out.
Thunk! - his first boot goes on.
He mumbles to himself as he drives.
He pulls out a gun and fires into Wade's gut.
Jerry pulls to a halt next to Wade's idling Cadillac.
Jerry approaches in the Cadillac.
The wooden gate barring the exit has been broken away.
The booth is empty.
Jerry eases toward the street, looking over at the booth as he passes.
Inside the booth we see the awkwardly angled leg of a prostrate body.
The car pulls into the driveway.
Jerry enters and sits on the foyer chair to take off his galoshes.
In his car, now parked, one hand holding the rag pressed to his mangled jaw.
He is staring down at something in the front seat next to him.
It has money inside - a lot of money.
Carl unfreezes, takes out one of the bank-wrapped wads and looks at it.
Marge drives, gazing out at the road.
She leans out of her open window and yells at the order panel.
She sits in the lot, eating a breakfast sandwich.
Jerry is at his desk using a blunt pencil to enter numbers onto a form.
Beneath the form is a piece of carbon paper and beneath that another form copy, which Jerry periodically checks.
The carbon-copy form shows thick smudgy, illegible entries.
She starts to enter.
Jerry looks up and freezes, mouth hanging open, brow knit with worry.
But she is already sitting into the chair opposite with a sigh of relieved weight.
There is a silent beat.
He trails off into silence.
Jerry stares at her.
Jerry explodes.
He is getting angrily off his feet.
He is yanking his parka from a hook behind the opened door and grabbing a pair of galoshes.
He stamps out the door.
Marge stares.
After a long moment her stare breaks.
She pulls a clipboard toward her.
It holds a form from the General Motors Finance Corporation.
She glances idly around the office.
There is another picture of Jean.
Marge looks at it, looks around, for some reason, at the ceiling.
She looks idly around.
Her look abruptly locks.
Jerry makes a left turn into traffic.
She grabs the phone and punches in a number.
Grimsrud says nothing.
Disgusted, Carl pockets the gun and heads for the door.
We are pulling Carl as he walks toward the car.
Behind him we see the cabin door opening.
Carl turns, reacting to the sound.
Grimsrud is bounding out wearing mittens and a red hunter's cap, but no overcoat.
He is holding an axe.
Grimsrud swings overhand, burying the axe in Carl's neck.
In her cruiser, on her two-way.
Through it we hear Lou's voice, heavily filtered.
We are slowing as we approach a short driveway leading down to a cabin.
Parked in front is the brown Cutlass Ciera.
Grimsrud stares.
Conscious of the noise, she shows with a twist of her shoulder the armpatch insignia.
With a quick twist, he reaches back for the log, hurls it at Marge and then starts running away.
Marge twists her body sideways, shielding herself.
Grimsrud pants up the hill - slow going through the deep snow.
Behind him.
Grimsrud, cheeks sunk, eyes hollow, looks sourly out at the road.
She glances up in the rear-view mirror.
Grimsrud's head bobs with bumps on the road; otherwise he is motionless, reaction less, scowling and gazing out.
Marge, gazing forward, seems to be talking to herself.
She glances up in the rear-view mirror.
Grimsrud's hollow eyes stare out.
Marge pulls over.
She leans back with a creak and jangle of utilities.
Outside it is snowing.
The sky, the earth, the road - all white.
She stares forward, shakes her head.
A squad car, gum-balls spinning, punches through the white.
It approaches in slow motion.
An ambulance punches through after it.
Another squad car.
It stands next to a highway on a snowy, windswept plain.
One or two cars dot the parking lot along with an idling police cruiser.
We are looking over the shoulders of two uniformed policemen who stand on either side of the door, their hands resting lightly on their holstered sidearms.
One of them raps at the door.
One of the policemen upholsters his gun and nods to someone whose back enters.
 A superintendent holding a ring of keys.
This man turns a key in the door and then stands away.
The two policemen, are ready with guns the motel room.
The rough hand-held camera rushes in behind them as the two men give the room a two-handed sweep with their guns.
The room is empty.
Cop one indicates the open bathroom door.
Marge looks at him.
Norm tries to suppress a smile of pleasure.
Her eyes go back to the TV.
Norm murmurs.
Both of them are watching the TV as Norm reaches out to rest a hand on top of her stomach.
Marge absently rests her own hand on top of his shoulder
He opens a box of chocolates and holds it out for the nurse.
The nurse shakes her head, a bit apprehensive about this strange man next to her.
Forrest eats a chocolate as he looks down at the nurse's shoes.
The black woman stares at Forrest as he looks down at his own shoes.
Forrest closes his eyes tightly.
A little boy closes his eyes tightly.
It is young Forrest as he sits in a doctor's office.
Forrest has been fitted with orthopedic shoes and metal leg braces.
The doctor sets Forrest down on its feet.
Forrest walks around stiffly.
Forrest's mother, MRS. GUMP, watches him as he clanks around the room awkwardly.
Forrest walks foreground past the doctor and Mrs. Gump.
A loud thud is heard as, outside, Forrest falls.
Mrs. Gump and young Forrest walk across the street.
Forrest walks stiffly next to his mother.
A black and white photo of General Nathan Bedford Forrest.
The photo turns into live action as the General dons a hooded sheet over his head.
The General is in full Ku Klux Klan garb, including his horse.
The General rides off, followed by a large group of Klan members dressed in full uniform.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk across the street.
Forrest stops suddenly as his brace gets stuck.
Forrest's brace is caught in a gutter grate.
Mrs. Gump bends down and tries to free Forrest.
Two old cronies sit in front of a barber shop and watch.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along the sidewalk past the two old men.
Mrs. Gump holds tightly onto Forrest's hand.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along a dirt road.
A row of mailboxes stands left.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along the Gump Boarding House driveway.
Mrs. Gump heads Forrest to the porch.
She bends down to look Forrest in the eye.
The principal sighs, then stands up.
Forrest sits outside the principal's office and waits.
The principal stands in front of Mrs. Gump.
Forrest, sitting left, listens.
Forrest sits outside the principal's office.
Loud organic male grunts are heard coming from inside the house.
Forrest sits on a swing outside the house.
Forrest sits on the swing as the grunts continue.
The principal steps out of the Gump House and wipes the sweat from his face.
Forrest is sitting on the porch.
The principal wipes the sweat from his neck, then looks back at Forrest.
Forrest grunts, imitating him.
The principal, embarrassed, turns and walks away.
Forrest lies down on his bed and looks up.
A cab driver closes the trunk of the car as two women walk toward the house.
A milkman steps down from the porch.
A MAN WITH A CANE steps left across the hall.
Mrs. Gump looks into a sitting room and informs the boarders about dinner.
Mrs. Gump looks into Forrest's room.
She hears singing coming from another room and walks over to a closed door.
Mrs. Gump opens the door, revealing a young man with long sideburns as he plays the guitar and sings.
Forrest holds onto a broom and dances oddly.
Forrest's legs rock back and forth to the guitar.
The young man is ELVIS PRESLEY.
Mrs. Gump leaves and closes the door.
Elvis sits back down.
Forrest begins to dance again as Elvis plays the guitar and sings.
Forrest stands left, and looks himself in a mirror.
Forrest dances as he watches himself in the mirror.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along a sidewalk.
The television reveals Elvis as he thrusts his hips and sings.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest watch the television.
Elvis dances around in the same manner Forrest did.
A woman in the audience screaming and applauding.
Mrs. Gump walks away, pulling Forrest with her.
Forrest stops and takes one last look.
Elvis continues to perform over the television.
Forrest is still sitting on the bus bench.
The black nurse looks at him.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest wait for the school bus.
The bus pulls up as Mrs. Gump prepares Forrest for his first day of school.
The bus driver opens the door and looks down.
Forrest walks to the steps of the bus and looks at the bus driver.
She is smoking a cigarette.
The bus driver smiles as Forrest steps up into the bus.
Forrest steps up onto the bus.
Mrs. Gump waves to Forrest as the bus drives away.
Forrest begins to walk down the aisle.
TWO YOUNG BOYS look up from the seat.
Forrest looks around.
A larger girl slides over so Forrest can't sit next to her.
She shakes her head.
Forrest looks to the other side where a boy sits alone on a larger seat.
They boy glares up at Forrest.
Forrest continues talking as he sits on the bus bench.
Young Forrest is still standing in the aisle on the bus.
Forrest looks back at JENNY CURRAN, a young girl about Forrest's age.
Forrest sits down next to Jenny.
Jenny puts her hand out toward Forrest.
Forrest reaches over and shakes her hand.
Young Jenny and Forrest run toward a large oak tree.
Jenny sits on a large branch and calls down to Forrest.
Forrest dangles from the branch.
Jenny and Forrest sit on a tree branch and read.
Forrest hangs upside down from a branch and swings back and forth.
Forrest's braces are wedged in the tree.
The silhouete of the oak tree, Jenny and Forrest as they sit on a branch.
Jenny puts her hand on Forrest's hand.
Forrest nods as he remembers.
Forrest continues talking to the black woman.
She looks up from her magazine.
Jenny and Forrest walk.
A dirt clod hits Forrest in the back of the head.
Jenny looks as Forrest rubs his head.
THREE YOUNG BOYS get off their bikes and pick up more rocks.
Forrest is hit in the eye with another dirt clod.
Forrest falls backward onto the ground as the boys glare at him.
Jenny helps Forrest back up.
Boy #1 and Boy #2 throw more dirt clods at Forrest.
Another dirt clod hits Forrest in the arm.
Forrest tries to run along the road, but his braces makes it impossible.
He hobbles along as Jenny yells after him.
Boy #1 and Boy #2 turn back toward the bikes.
The boys ride after Forrest.
Jenny stands and watches.
Forrest hobbles along the dirt road.
Forrest looks over his shoulder.
The three boys race on their bikes.
Forrest begins to run faster with his braces on.
Forrest continues running as the boys chase him.
Blood drips down from a cut on his head.
The boys on the bikes are gaining on Forrest.
Forrest hobbles along.
He begins to gain speed.
Forrest runs from the chasing room.
The boys on the bikes peddle faster as they gain on Forrest, running.
He looks over his shoulder in fear.
Forrest tries to run even faster to get away.
Suddenly his braces shatter, sending steel and plastic flying into the air.
Forrest runs and look down at his legs in surprise.
Forrest continues to run faster as the metal braces and straps fly off his legs.
Forrest runs free of his braces and begins to pick up speed.
The chasing boys ride over the remains of Forrest's braces.
The black woman continues to read her magazine.
Forrest smiles as he remembers.
Forrest is already at the far end of the road, clear of the chasing boys.
The boys stop the chase and watch in disbelief.
Forrest sprints away from the boys.
Forrest runs down a driveway toward Jenny's small house.
Forrest knocks on Jenny's door.
Forrest look around the field at the left.
He notices Jenny and runs toward her.
Forrest runs to Jenny.
Jenny grabs Forrest's hand and runs into the field.
Jenny's DAD drunk, steps out onto the porch and shouts.
Jenny's dad steps out toward the field.
Jenny leads Forrest into the thick tobacco field.
Jenny's dad runs through the field searching for Jenny with a liquor bottle in his hand.
Jenny and Forrest run into a corn field as Jenny's dad tries to chase her.
Jenny drops to her knees and pulls Forrest down with her.
A police officer escorts Jenny to her grandmother's trailer.
Jenny's grandmother meets Jenny outside and leads her toward the trailer.
Jenny climbs over a second-floor railing and enters the house.
Jenny lies in bed next to young Forrest.
She hugs him.
Forrest and Jenny are teenagers now.
They walk along an oaklined road.
Suddenly Forrest is hit in the back with a rock.
Forrest and Jenny turn around.
A teenage boy throws another rock as a pickup truck pulls up behind him.
Jenny turns and looks at Forrest.
Forrest drops his books and runs down the road.
The teenage boy jumps into the back of the pickup truck with another boy as the truck speeds after Forrest.
Jenny steps left and gets out of the way.
Forrest leaps over a five-foot fence as the boys try to catch him.
Forrest looks left as he continues telling his life story.
Forrest runs along the road in front of the high school.
The truck continues to chase him as the boys pound on the roof.
Forrest runs under the field goal post and through the end zone.
The crowd roars with excitement as a football is kicked off.
The football players run around on the field.
Forrest is in a University of Alabama football uniform.
He looks up into the cheering crowd as his teammate fields the kickoff.
The teammate runs over to Forrest and hands him the ball.
The football coach, the assistants, and Alabama players cheer for Forrest.
Forrest runs across the field.
He speeds past the defending players.
Forrest runs past the opposite players.
The football coach runs along the sidelines as he yells.
Forrest cuts and runs toward the sidelines.
Two opposing players collide.
The football coach, the assistants and the players all motion for Forrest to run toward the end zone.
Forrest turns up the sidelines and runs toward the end zone.
Some opposing players fall down.
Forrest runs along the sidelines.
The opposing players try to catch him.
Forrest runs into the end zone as an opposing player dives at his feet.
The referee holds up his arm, signaling a touch down.
The crowd cheers wildly.
Forrest continues to run, smashing through the band members, then all the way toward the team tunnel.
The football coach looks at an assistant coach.
An anchorman named CHET HUNTLEY appears over the television.
Forrest walks through a crowd of people.
Forrest steps over to a young man as the crowd looks at the demonstration.
Forrest walks toward the schoolhouse.
A football coach looks at a black and white television as a newsman outside the schoolhouse speaks to the camera.
The footage cuts to Governor Wallace as he speaks to General Graham.
Forrest stands next to George Wallace and listens.
Some of the Alabama policeman and citizens clap their hands as the National Guardsmen stand at attention with their weapons in front of them.
Forrest walks through the crowd.
Two black students were being led toward the schoolhouse.
The young black girl drops one of her books.
Forrest notices and steps past the policeman toward the book on the ground.
Forrest steps out from the crowd and picks up the book.
He brings it up to the girl.
A coach looks at the television.
The television reveals Forrest as he stands at the schoolhouse door.
He looks around, then waves.
An assistant coach looks at the television, then at the other coaches.
The football coach and two assistant coaches look.
Forrest dries himself off with a towel as he steps from the showers.
COLOR FOOTAGE - Governor Wallace mingles in a crowd.
Gunshots are fired, wounding him.
Some men wrestle the shooter.
Wallace lies wounded on the ground.
Forrest sits on the bench as the black woman looks at him.
A WHITE WOMAN with a bay sits left.
A bus pulls up to the bus stop.
The BLACK WOMAN looks down at her watch.
The Black Woman gets up and steps over to the bus.
The white woman sits closer to Forrest.
Forrest sits outside Jenny's dorm in the rain.
A car pulls up.
A song is heard from the radio.
Forrest, holding a box of chocolates, looks at the car.
The two people inside the car begins to kiss and embrace each other.
Jenny is inside the car with a boy.
She leans back against the passenger side door as they struggle to get comfortable.
Billy gets back into the car.
Billy pulls away as Jenny steps toward Forrest.
Forrest holds out the box of chocolates.
Jenny grabs Forrest hand and leads him toward the dorm.
Jenny and Forrest sneak to Jenny's door.
Jenny unlocks the door and they step inside.
Jenny pulls a robe off of her sleeping roommate's bed.
Jenny hands the robe to Forrest, sitting on Jenny's bed.
Jenny picks up a towel, then walks back toward Forrest.
Jenny dries the water from her hair.
Jenny takes off her slip and sits on the bed next to him.
She is only wearing her bra and panties.
Forrest looks at Jenny like he's never seen a woman in her underwear before.
Forrest looks down at Jenny's breasts.
Jenny realizes that he is looking at her.
Jenny leans over and puts her head on Forrest's shoulder.
A song is coming over the radio.
Jenny hugs Forrest.
Jenny laughs and kisses Forrest on the cheek.
Forrest and Jenny hug on the bed as Jenny's roommate pretends to be asleep, but is listening, horrified, with her eyes open.
The crowd yells for Forrest.
Forrest runs across the field as the defending team chases him.
Forrest runs along the field.
Forrest runs into the end zone.
The crowd cheers.
Forrest stops in the end zone as he hears the crowd yells.
The band members rush toward Forrest with their hands up, signaling him to stop.
The band motions for Forrest to stop and stay in the end zone.
A group of defending players fall over each other in the end zone.
Forrest looks as the crowd cheers wildly.
PRESIDENT KENNEDY holds an autographed football as the All- American Team stands behind him.
Forrest is among the players in suits.
The All-American players mingle around the food table.
Forrest steps up to the table.
A large spread of food and soda is on the table.
Numerous bottle of Dr. Pepper are displayed on the table.
Forrest takes a bottle of Dr. Pepper from the buffet table.
A servant opens the bottle for him.
Forrest begins to guzzle the Dr. Pepper.
Forrest sets down an empty Dr. Pepper bottle next to a large number of other empty bottles.
Forrest holds his stomach and burps.
BLACK AND WHITE FOOTAGE - President Kennedy shakes hands with the All-American football players.
Another player steps up to the President and shakes the President's hand.
The player walks away.
Forrest steps up to the President.
The President shakes his hand.
President Kennedy turns and smiles.
Forrest urinates in the bathroom, then lowers the lid and flashes.
Forrest washes his hands, then notices an autographed photo from Marilyn Monroe and a photo of John with his brother Bobby.
ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - DAY SLOW MOTION - President Kennedy rises in a convertible and smiles.
ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - Robert Kennedy stands at a podium as people around him applaud.
Forrest sits on the bench and shakes his head.
Students in their caps and gowns step forward the podium to receive their diplomas.
Forrest's name is called.
He steps up and accepts his diploma.
The dean shakes Forrest's hand vigorously.
Forrest looks out into the crowd.
Mrs. Gump, sitting in the audience, cries.
Forrest and Mrs. Gump have their picure taken in front of a large statue.
A military recruiter spots Forrest and steps up to him.
Mrs. Gump takes the diploma from Forrest.
The recruiter slaps Forrest on the shoulder and hands him some military literature.
Forrest steps onto the army bus.
Rain pours outside as the army bus driver yells at Forrest.
Forrest is about to sit on the first available seat, but the recruit sitting there refuses Forrest.
Forrest tries to sit on the next seat, but the recruit slides over, blocking him.
Forrest steps forward, looking much like he did on his first bus ride to school years ago.
A large black recruit with a strange look on his face, much like Forrest's, looks up from his seat.
Bubba moves his case over, making room for Forrest to sit down.
Bubba hands Forrest a handkerchief.
Bubba and Forrest shake hands.
Bubba's mother, a robust woman in a cook's uniform, carries a bowl of shrimp into a dining room.
She sets it down on a table in front of a wealthy white man.
Bubba's grandmother carries a bowl of shrimp into a dining room.
She sets it down on a table in front of a wealthy white man.
The Drill Sergeant moves down the line to the next man.
The recruits are sitting at the base of their bunks assembling their rifles.
Bubba speaks to Forrest.
Forrest finishes assembling his rifle as the other recruits are still working on theirs.
The Drill Sergeant rushes up to Forrest.
The Drill Sergeant looks at his stop watch.
The Drill Sergeant walks away as Forrest begins to disassemble his rifle.
Bubba continues talking about shrimp in his slow southern drawl.
Bubba and Forrest shine their boots.
Bubba and Forrest are on their hands and knees as they scrub the floor with toothbrushes.
Bubba lies in his bunk and looks up quietly.
Forrest lies in his bunk and looks up.
A young private tosses a Playboy magazine onto Forrest.
Forrest pick up the magazine and turns the page, revealing Jenny as she poses with a school sweater on, and that's all.
Forrest looks up with shock.
He cranes his head up for a closer look.
Forrest, in his army uniform, steps into the foyer of the club.
EMCEE steps out onto the stage.
The men laugh.
Jenny kicks his hand.
He yells angrily as he sits back down, then tosses his drink on her.
Forrest walks up to Man #5 and grabs him and tosses him down on the ground.
Man #4 tries to grab Forrest, but Forrest shoves him down too.
Forrest climbs up onto the stage and picks Jenny up, guitar and all, and carries her.
Jenny struggles and frees herself from Forrest.
Forrest steps back in surprise.
Jenny shoves the guitar at Forrest.
Jenny walks off as Forrest holds the guitar.
He follows after her.
Forrest follows Jenny over a bridge outside the night club.
Jenny turns and looks over the bridge.
Jenny turns and looks at the light of an approaching vehicle.
She steps into the street.
Jenny runs and flags down the approaching vehicle.
A pickup truck pulls over as Jenny looks at the driver.
Jenny walks toward Forrest.
She looks at the driver.
Jenny walks up to Forrest.
Jenny takes a last look at Forrest, then climbs into the truck.
Forrest watches Jenny in the pickup as it drives away.
Forrest, dressed in his uniform, sits on a log and looks out at a river.
Mrs. Gump walks toward Forrest and sits down next to him on the log.
Forrest leans down, placing his head on his mother's shoulder.
The shadow of a helicopter over the rice field below.
A soldier is manning a gun from inside the helicopter.
The solider looks left, Forrest and Bubba ride in the helicopter.
The helicopter circles overhead, then lands at the firebase.
Bubba and Forrest jump out of the helicopter with their gear/ They walk and look around oddly.
The soldier places a case of beer on a large stack of cases.
He takes two beers out and walks away.
In the background, soldiers are barbecuing steaks and drinking beer.
Lieutenant DAN TAYLOR steps out of a tent.
Shirtless, he holds a roll of toilet paper in his hand.
Lt. Dan looks at Bubba.
Forrest and Bubba look at each other oddly, they don't get the joke.
Lt. Dan starts to walk.
Bubba and Forrest grab their gear and follow him.
Lt. Dan stops and looks at the boys.
Lt. Dan steps over to a large black soldier named SERGEANT.
A distant relative of Lt. Dan's, wearing a revolutionary war uniform, falls dead in the snow.
Another relative, wearing a civil war uniform and bearing a striking resemblance to Lt. Dan, falls down dead.
Another relative, wearing a World War II, falls down dead on the beach at Normandy.
Lt. Dan steps back up to Bubba and Forrest.
Lt. Dan walks along the walkway and Bubba and Forrest follow.
Lt. Dan steps inside the latrine, still holding the roll of toilet paper.
Lt. Dan sits down out of sight in the latrine, then stands up, looking at the boys.
Lt. Dan sits back down out of sight in the latrine.
Bubba and Forrest look at each other.
Forrest, Bubba, and other soldiers in the Fourth Platoon walk across the rice field.
Some Vietnamese rice farmers are working as the soldiers walk past.
Forrest's unit walks along a dirt road.
Suddenly Lt. Dan holds up his fist, a signal for the unit to stop.
He motions for them to get down.
Forrest gets down and looks around.
Lt. Dan motions for the lead soldier to get down.
Lt. Dan crouches down.
Lt. Dan looks at the soldiers and points to his eyes.
He lies down on the dirt road and crawls.
Tex holds up his hand, motioning that he doesn't know.
Forrest stands up and begins to walk with the platoon.
Lt. Dan walks away as Forrest rushes over, aims two pistols in the hole, then climbs inside.
ANOTHER DAY - The platoon walks through a rice paddy, waits deep in water.
It begins to rain.
The rain pours down on Forrest and Bubba as they sit in a foxhole.
ANOTHER DAY - The platoon walks through the jungle as rain pours down on them.
ANOTHER DAY - The platoon shelters themselves as they walk through the wind and rain.
Forrest holds his hand up to protect his face.
ANOTHER DAY - Forrest and other soldiers walk chest-deep through a river.
The rain splatters back up from the river, hitting the soldiers.
The rain pours down on the men of the platoon as they sit in a camp.
Bubba sits down next to Forrest.
Bubba leans his back up against Forrest's back.
ANOTHER NIGHT - Some soldiers patrol the area.
Forrest lies in a pup tent and writes a litter as the rain pours down.
He uses his flashlight to see.
Jenny steps out of the trailer with a backpack and a guitar.
She hugs a hippie guy, then jumps into the back of a Volkswagen bus with another guy.
Forrest writes a letter in his tent.
The Fourth Platoon makes their way through the jungle and rain.
Forrest looks up as the sun suddenly appears.
Forrest's platoon is attacked.
A bullet kills the soldier standing next to Forrest.
Bombs explode all around as the soldiers scramble to the ground.
Forrest crawls over a berm as bullets fly overhead and explode all around him.
Forrest rolls over and pulls his pack off Lt. Dan lies next to Forrest.
Two soldiers with a machine gun fire into the jungle.
Lt. Dan shouts into the radio.
Forrest begins firing his weapon into the jungle.
The machine gunner fires into the treeline.
Another soldier helps him with the ammunition.
The machine gun jams.
A rocket explodes on the machine gunner and the other soldier, killing them.
Forrest looks down and covers his head as rockets explodes all around him.
The platoon gets up and runs toward the cover of the jungle.
Rockets explode all around the field.
Forrest runs into the jungle.
The soldiers run through the jungle as bullets explode all around.
A soldier is blown up by a rocket.
A soldier runs through the jungle.
Forrest runs past the soldier.
Rockets explode in the jungle as Forrest runs out toward a clearing.
Forrest turns around, then runs back into the jungle.
Rockets explode in the jungle.
Forrest runs back into the jungle to look for Bubba.
Forrest stops and aims his weapon.
He looks around, scared.
Something moves.
Forrest turns and looks, then rushes over.
Tex lies on the ground, his face distorted with pain.
Forrest carries Tex out of the jungle and into the clearing.
He sets Tex down on the bank of a river, and runs back into the jungle.
Forrest drops another wounded soldier down at the bank of the river next to Tex, and then runs back toward the jungle.
Forrest grabs the third wounded soldier up from the ground and turns him over.
It is DALLAS.
Forrest pulls Lt. Dan over his shoulder and runs through the jungle.
Forrest falls down.
Forrest gets up as Lt. Dan yells.
Lt. Dan fires his pistol at the unseen enemy as Forrest pulls him away.
Forrest drops Lt. Dan down at the bank, next to the other wounded soldiers.
Lt. Dan grabs Forrest by the shirt, angry.
Forrest gets up and runs as Lt. Dan yells after him.
Forrest runs through the jungle searching for Bubba.
Forrest slows down and looks around carefully.
Bubba looks up as he lies on the ground.
Bubba holds a palm frond over his wound.
Forrest removes the frond to look at the wound.
Bubba's chest has been blown open.
Forrest looks around as he hear the voices of the enemy.
Forrest carries Bubba through the jungle.
The sound of approaching planes fills the air.
The roar of approaching planes is deafening.
Forrest looks up in fear.
Three planes dive down toward the jungle.
They fire napalm as the jungle explodes with massive fireballs.
Forrest runs, carrying Bubba.
The fireballs explode behind him.
The entire jungle area is in flames as Forrest runs.
Forrest carries Bubba to the bank of the river.
Lt. Dan and the other wounded soldiers wait for a rescue helicopter.
Forrest looks down at Bubba.
A soldier releases a smoke canister.
The helicopter fly overhead.
Forrest continues with his life story.
A MAN is sitting next to Forrest on the bus bench.
Forrest holds two ice cream cones in his hands as he is wheeled on a rolling stretcher.
Forrest's butt sticks up and is bandaged.
Forrest, lying on his stomach, is wheeled to his bed.
Forrest looks at Lt. Dan lying on the bed.
Forrest holds out an ice cream cone for Lt. Dan.
Lt. Dan, annoyed, takes the ice cream cone and drops it into his bed pan.
Forrest slides himself onto his bed.
A NURSE reaches toward Lt. Dan.
The male nurse places Lt. Dan's hands on a pull-up bar, then picks up Lt. Dan, whose legs have been amputated.
Another nurse wheels the rolling bed under Lt. Dan.
The male nurse sets Lt. Dan down on the rolling bed.
A soldier reads the names from a pile of letters.
Forrest looks up at Lt. Dan as he is wheeled away.
The soldier hands Forrest a large pile of letters.
Forrest looks down at the pile of letters.
A group of wounded soldiers hang out in the hospital, recuperating.
Forrest turns the TV off and he is hit on the back of the head by a ping-pong ball.
Forrest shakes his head.
The wounded ping-pong player hands Forrest a paddle.
Forrest and the wounded ping-pong player step toward the ping-pong table.
He holds the ball up and moves it back and forth.
Forrest keeps his eyes on the ball.
The wounded ping-pong player tosses the ball down onto the table.
Forrest begins to hit the ball back to the other player.
Forrest hits ping-pong balls.
The balls at land in a bed pan positioned on a chair.
A group of wounded soldier sit and watch Forrest play with himself.
Forrest hits two balls at a time against the opposite side of the table.
Lt. Dan stares out the window.
Forrest lies in his bed asleep.
A hand reaches and grabs him.
Lt. Dan pulls Forrest to the floor, and holds Forrest down.
Lt. Dan looks at Forrest, lets go of Forrest and rolls.
Lt. Dan sits up as Forrest looks at him.
Forrest plays ping-pong by himself.
An OFFICER walks up to him.
The officer holds up an envelope.
Forrest steps up to Lt. Dan's bed.
Forrest stops in mid-sentence as he looks down at the bed.
A heavily bandaged soldier with bloodstains lies there.
Forrest turns and look at the NURSE.
The television reveals Forrest as he is awarded the Medal of Honor by President Johnson.
Color footage revealing President Johnson as he places the award around Forrest's neck and shakes hands.
President Johnson leans and whispers into Forrest's ear.
The television revealing Forrest as he drops his pants, bends over and shows the bullet wound on his bare buttocks.
President Johnson looks down and smiles.
The three men in the barber shop look up in disbelief.
Mrs. Gump looks up in shock.
Hilary leads the line of vets toward the large anti-Vietnam War rally.
Hilary pulls Forrest up onto the stage.
The other vets follow Forrest pushes onto the stage and push him toward the microphones.
Abbie raises his fist as the crowd cheers wildly.
Forrest looks at the crowd as he speaks.
A policeman looks around as he sneaks over to the audio circuit board.
The policeman pulls the patch cords out of the audio board.
Forrest continues to speak into the microphone, even though no one can hear what he is saying.
Hilary looks over and notices the policeman.
Hilary rushes over toward the audio board, pushes the policeman away and grabs his night stick.
Another protester grabs the policeman and pulls him away.
Isabel, Hilary and another protester try to plug the tangled mess of wires back into the audio board.
Forrest continues to speak into the microphone.
The crowd grows restless.
Hilary plugs in the right patch cord.
Forrest looks at the massive crowd.
They are silent.
Abbie Hoffman steps over to Forrest and pats him on the shoulder.
Abbie raises his fist into the air.
The crowd cheers.
Abbie steps away from Forrest.
Jenny wades out into the reflection pool and waves her hand into the air.
Forrest recognizes her.
Forrest rushes off the stage as Jenny makes her way out into the pool.
Forrest jumps down into the crowd and runs.
Jenny smiles as she tries to run through the water.
The crowd parts as Forrest runs into the pool.
Jenny rushes toward him.
The massive crowd cheers for the embracing couple in the pool.
Forrest and Jenny walk past the protesters who are camping out on the lawn.
Forrest stands at an open window and looks at the White House.
A Black Panther, named RUBEN, steps over and pulls the shades down.
Another Black Panther named MASAI grabs Forrest and pats him down.
Jenny rushes over to Forrest and pulls Forrest off Wesley.
Jenny tries to help Wesley as he moans on the floor.
Wesley knocks Jenny's hand away.
He gets up, holding his bloody lip.
Jenny steps out the door as Forrest picks up his hat.
The group of Black Panthers glare at Forrest.
Forrest turns and walks out the room.
Protesters hold a candlelight vigil behind them.
Forrest and Jenny walk past the White House.
They walk in silence.
Jenny touches Forrest's uniform.
Jenny stands in the rain, hitchhiking.
A car pulls over to pick her up.
Jenny and other other girls get into the car.
A hippie gives Jenny a sugar cube of acid as they sit in front of a roaring fire.
Jenny and two other girls sing on the sidewalk and collect change from the passersby.
Jenny plays the guitar.
Forrest and Jenny walk through the park.
Jenny carries a backpack as she prepares to board a bus back to Berkeley.
Forrest looks down at Jenny.
He pulls his Medal of Honor from around his neck.
Forrest places the Medal of Honor in Jenny's hand.
Jenny looks up at him.
Jenny and Forrest hug each other.
Wesley waits for Jenny.
Jenny turns and walks up to Wesley.
They walk toward the entrance of the bus.
Forrest smiles as Jenny looks at her.
Jenny climbs up into the bus.
Wesley glares at Forrest.
Jenny through the near window of the bus, knocks on the window.
Forrest turns and looks.
Jenny waves to Forrest.
Forrest looks up and smiles sadly.
Jenny gives Forrest the peace sign as the bus pulls away.
Forrest gives Jenny the peace sign.
A footage of Neil Armstrong's first step on the moon on television.
Forrest looks at a man.
A large mural of Mao Tse-tung hangs on the wall.
Forrest plays ping-pong against a Chinese player.
A crowd of communist leaders sit and watch.
Dick Cavett stands up as he introduces Forrest.
Forrest makes his way onto the stage, shakes hands with Dick Cavett.
Forrest sits down between JOHN LENNON and Dick Cavett.
Forrest looks oddly at John Lennon.
John Lennon lights a cigarette.
A guard lets Forrest out a side entrance door.
Forrest steps, an then stops as he hears s man sitting in a wheelchair speak to him.
Forrest looks at Lt. Dan.
He is a dirty with long hair.
Lt. Dan's wheelchair begins to slide down the ramp and spins around on the icy ground.
Forrest looks down at Lt. Dan crashes at the bottom of the ramp.
Taxi cabs crowd the street as Forrest pushes Lt. Dan along the sidewalk.
A taxi driver honks his horn as Forrest wheels Lt. Dan out in front of the taxi.
The taxi honks at Lt. Dan.
A taxi skids to a stop, almost hitting them as they cross the street.
Lt. Dan slaps the bumper of the taxi.
A Bob Hope Christmas special in Vietnam on television.
Lt. Dan and Forrest watch the television.
Lt. Dan chuckles, drinks the rest of a bottle of wine and tosses it down.
He looks at Forrest.
He wheels himself over to television and turns it off.
Lt. Dan picks up another bottle of port wine, but it is empty.
He tosses it onto the floor.
Lt. Dan tosses the empty liquor bottle down and picks another bottle.
He becomes enraged as he throws the bottle and looks at Forrest.
A television shows DICK CLARK as he emcees the Times Square New York Eve celebration.
Two sleazy women, named LENORE and CARLA, walk up to Lt. Dan.
Lenore fixes her makeup.
Lenore leans and speaks into Forrest's ear.
The people in the bar cheer and kiss each other.
They blow horns and toss confetti into the air.
Forrest looks around as Carla and Lenore lean over and kiss him.
Carla removes her top and sits on top of Dan in his wheelchair.
They kiss and play around.
Forrest sits in a chair.
Lenore leaps on him and begins to kiss Forrest.
She reaches down to Forrest's crotch.
Forrest stands up nervously, causing Lenore to fall down on the floor.
Lenore stands up, angry.
Lt. Dan throws Carla back onto the bed.
Lt. Dan falls out of his wheelchair and lands down on the floor.
Carla and Lenore laugh as they leave the apartment.
Forrest tries to help Lt. Dan.
Lt. Dan pushes Forrest away.
Forrest steps back as Lt. Dan flips back over, then pulls himself back up onto his wheelchair.
He breathes heavily.
An ANCHORMAN reports in front of the White House.
Forrest looks at the fat man on the bus bench.
President NIXON holds the plaque.
Forrest speaks on the phone.
Forrest hangs up the phone.
President Nixon makes a resignation speech on TV.
The television cuts to a shot of President Nixon standing outside Air Force One with his hands in the peace sign.
The officer hands Forrest an envelope, then walks away.
Forrest takes his paddle and runs out of the gymnasium.
Mrs. Gump walks out of the house and smiles.
Forrest walks up to the house, wearing his uniform.
Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk into the house.
In the house are stacks of ping-pong paddles and life-sized cardboard cutouts of Forrest playing ping-pong.
Forrest walks up to a shack on the edge of the Bayou.
A group of black kids play in the front yard.
Bubba's mother named MRS. BLUE and her other children look at Forrest.
Forrest steps over to Bubba's tombstone.
Forrest pulls out notes from his pocket.
Forrest walks along a wooden pier.
Forrest pays an old black shrimper a large wad of cash.
Forrest stands at the grave.
Forrest steers his shrimping boat.
The boat is old and rusty.
Forrest unleashes his nets as his catch of the day drops to the deck.
It is a bunch of garbage and shells.
Forrest picks up one shrimp.
Forrest pulls a couple of shrimp out of a bucket.
The old shrimper begins to walk away, then stops and looks at Forrest.
Forrest paints a name on the side of his boat.
Disco lights flash and people dance.
A guy asks a girl to dance.
Forrest stands at the helm as the boat glides across the water.
Drug paraphernalia and a large wad of cash are spread out on a table.
A man drops a syringe on the table.
He reaches over and touches Jenny.
She is pale with dark lines under her eyes.
Jenny smears some lines of cocaine on a mirror.
She looks at herself in the mirror.
Jenny steps out onto the high-rise balcony.
She steps up on a table and stands on the edge of the balcony.
A busy street lies many stories below.
Jenny looks down to the intersection below.
She slips over the edge, regains her balance, turns and looks back at the intersection below, and begins to get down from the edge.
Jenny grabs a hold of the ledge and carefully climbs down.
She sits down on a chair.
Jenny rocks back and forth as she cries.
She looks up at the sky.
The moon shines above in the sky.
Forrest lies in a hammock on his boat.
Forrest stands at the helm of his boat and slowly glides by the docks.
Forrest looks around and notices something and bends down to get a clear view.
Lt. Dan sits in his wheelchair on the deck.
Forrest looks at Lt. Dan.
He smiles, surprised.
Forrest's boat glides, crushing a dock.
Forrest and Lt. Dan look at it.
Forrest's shrimping boat is alone on the gulf waters.
Forrest looks up.
Lt. Dan is sitting in the rigging.
Forrest empties the net.
The all-black gospel choir sings and claps their hands.
Lt. Dan is sitting in his chair at the back of the church.
He takes swigs from a liquor bottle.
A catch of junk is dumped onto the deck.
Lt. Dan lowers himself from the rigging.
The wind begins to blow strong.
Water sprays on deck during a hurricane.
Lt. Dan on the rigging, shouts and shakes his fist as he is pelted by wind and rain.
Forrest slides back and forth as he attempts to steer the boat.
An ANCHORMAN over TV, is standing in front of a pier.
The anchorman is standing in front of the ruined pier and boats.
Forrest's boat comes down the river.
Lt. Dan and Forrest empty their net.
A huge catch of shrimp falls onto the deck.
Lt. Dan opens another big catch.
Another catch drops open on top of yet another huge catch.
Forrest and Lt. Dan smile.
The man sitting on the bench listens to Forrest.
An ELDERLY WOMAN sits next to the man.
The man laughs as he walks away.
The elderly woman looks at the magazine and at Forrest with surprise.
Forrest and Lt. Dan are working on the boat.
Forrest looks a little surprised.
Lt. Dan smiles, then looks away.
Lt. Dan pulls himself out of his chair to the railing and jumps into the water.
The television shows an assassination attempt on President Gerald Ford.
Forrest and Lt. Dan have dinner on the deck.
Forrest opens the door, the doctor stands next to Mrs. Gump in bed.
The doctor looks down at Forrest's legs.
The doctor leaves and closes the door.
Forrest takes off his hat and steps over to her.
The elderly woman and Forrest sit.
The woman is crying and wipes her eyes with a hankie.
A bus stops.
Forrest looks at the elderly woman.
Forrest rides a lawn tractor as he moves the football field lawn.
Forrest takes out a letter and opens it.
he choir and members are singing.
New furniture is taken inside.
A new cross is placed on the steeple.
The ribbon-cutting ceremony.
A postman delivers a letter to Bubba's mom.
She opens the letter.
She is surrounded by her many children.
She looks at the check and faints.
A door opens as a white woman serves Bubba's mom some shrimp.
Forrest rides the mower.
Forrest looks down the road as he steps onto the porch.
Jenny's image walks, then vanishes.
Forrest looks away.
He turns and walks into the house.
Jenny walks across the lawn to Forrest.
Jenny lies asleep in bed.
Forrest and Jenny walking.
She breaks a window.
Jenny collapses to the ground and sobs.
Forrest knees down next to her.
Jenny and Forrest sit on a limb together.
Jenny sits by the vase of flowers and look out the window.
Forrest closes his eyes as he sits on the porch.
Jenny places a box of Nike running shoes in his lap.
Jenny and Forrest sit on a log together and look at the river.
Jenny places her arms around Forrest.
Jenny turns off the TV and walks outside.
Forrest stands as he puts down his Dr. Pepper.
Jenny walks toward the stairs.
Forrest turns and walks toward the door.
Jenny turns and walks up the stairs.
Forrest stands outside.
The house stands in the rain.
Forrest lies in his bed as the door opens.
Jenny gets into bed next to Forrest.
Jenny and Forrest kiss.
Jenny takes off her nightgown as they make love.
Jenny carries her purse and walks toward a waiting cab.
The cab drives away as Forrest is asleep in his bed.
The Congressional Medal lies on a table by a ping-pong paddle.
Forrest holds a glass of milk and wears his bathrobe.
He looks at the medal he had give to Jenny.
Jenny's bed is made.
Forrest stands in the doorway looking at the room and bed where Jenny had been.
He is still, as if in a trance.
Forrest sit on a rocking chair with his running shoes on.
He slowly puts on his Bubba- Gump cap.
Forrest stands.
He walks off the porch.
He begins to jog across the lawn.
His speed increases as he runs farther away.
Forrest runs down the drive away from his house.
Forrest runs to the end of the drive, then turns right and runs down the highway.
The three men sit as they watch the television.
Forrest runs through the main street of town.
Forrest runs under the sign and onto the pier.
Forrest runs to a pier at the Atlantic Ocean.
A lighthouse stands at the end of the pier.
Forrest runs across the pier.
Forrest is running along the highway.
Forrest runs down a road between field of wheat.
A Mountain river.
Forrest runs across a cobble-stone bridge.
The Rocky Mountains are behind him in distance.
Split rail fences line the road.
Forrest runs through some meadowland.
The three men in the barber shop watch the news on television.
Jenny fills customer's coffee cups.
Forrest runs as a YOUNG MAN runs up to him.
The young man jogs behind Forrest.
Forrest runs up a slope on a high mountain road.
A group of people are jogging behind him.
A large group jogs behind Forrest across the desert road.
Forrest and his followers jog through a small town.
A man runs up and talks to Forrest.
The hippie stops to ponder this profound thought.
The truck with the bumper sticker drives into an intersection.
It collides with a car.
Forrest runs, followed by his group, as a man runs up to him.
Forrest wipes his face on the towel and hands it back to the man.
The man looks at the T-shirt.
Forrest runs with a group that follows behind him.
Forrest stops running.
The group stops behind him.
Forrest stands and looks as the group waits expectantly.
Forrest turns and look.
Forrest walks toward the group.
The group parts for Forrest as he walks down the middle of the road.
A television shows President Reagan and his staff as they react to gunshots in front of a limo.
Forrest sits eating a sandwich, watching the news of the assassination attempt.
Forrest takes the letter out of his pocket.
The elderly woman looks at the letter.
Forrest hastily grabs his suitcase and letter as he stands.
A truck honks its horn as Forrest runs across the street past the truck.
Forrest runs, the elderly woman shouts from the bus stop bench.
Jenny opens the door.
Jenny shuts the door.
Forrest looks around.
Forrest hands Jenny the box of chocolates.
Jenny picks up a scrapbook and turns the pages.
There is a knock at the door.
LYNN MARIE enters as she opens the door.
Jenny grabs a young boy.
The little boy runs into other room and picks up TV remote control.
Forrest continues to stare at Forrest Jr.
Forrest then looks frightened and starts to back away.
Jenny turns and looks at Forrest Jr. in the other room.
Forrest breathes deep.
He looks at Jenny, then at Forrest Jr.
Forrest walks into the room and sits down next to Forrest Jr.
Jenny walks out of the house.
Forrest walks over to greet her.
She wears a white dress.
She walks up to Forrest and adjusts his necktie.
Lt. Dan is walking across the lawn.
He uses a cane.
A WOMAN is walking next to him.
Jenny walks over to Forrest and Lt. Dan.
Lt. Dan lifts his pant leg to display his metal leg.
Susan shakes Forrest's hand.
Jenny steps forward and kisses Lt. Dan's cheek.
The group is seated as they watch Forrest and Jenny take vows on the front lawn.
Forrest Jr. stands next to Jenny.
The wind blows fallen leaves across the ground.
Jenny, Forrest, and Forrest Jr. walk toward the house.
They all hold hands as they walk.
Forrest steps into Jenny's bedroom.
He carries a tray with breakfast on it.
Forrest looks at Jenny as she sleeps.
Slowly she wakes up and looks at Forrest.
Forrest looks up into the sky as the rain stops.
Forrest removes his helmet.
The stars emerge from behind the clouds.
Forrest stands on his boat and looks at a deep orange and red sunset.
Forrest runs along a highway.
A lake reflects the mountains and the sky.
Forrest runs along a desert highway.
The morning light casts an orange glow over the desert.
Jenny looks out the window.
Forrest looks at Jenny.
Jenny reaches over and takes Forrest's hand.
Forrest stands under the old oak tree where Jenny has been buried.
Forrest tries to hold back his tears.
Forrest watches as Jenny's dad's house is knocked down by a bulldozer.
Jenny's grave marker.
Jenny's grave marker reads: JENNY GUMP July 16, -- March 22, Beloved Mother, Wife and Friend.
Forrest Jr. reads a book to Forrest sitting next to him.
Forrest looks down as he sobs.
Forrest tries to teach Forrest Jr. how to play ping-pong.
Forrest Jr. serves the ball, causing Forrest dive and miss it.
Forrest and Forrest Jr. sit on a log by the river and fish.
Forrest looks down at the grave marker.
Forrest places the letter down at the grave marker, next to fresh flowers.
Forrest steps back and looks down at the grave.
As Forrest walks away, a flock of birds flies overhead and lands in the tree.
Forrest turns and watches.
The bus drives toward them.
Forrest looks at the book.
The feather from the beginning of the movie drops out of the book, unnoticed.
The bus comes to a stop.
The door opens.
Forrest Jr. walks toward the bus.
Forrest stands up.
Forrest Jr. looks into the bus and at the bus driver.
It is the same bus driver, only older now, who drove Forrest to school when he was a young boy.
Forrest Jr. looks over and waves to his father.
Forrest nods approvingly.
Forrest Jr. gets on the bus.
The bus pulls away.
Forrest stands next to the mailbox.
Forrest sits down.
The camera cranes down, revealing the feather as it lies at Forrest's feet.
A gust of wind picks the feather up.
The feather floats up into the air.
Forrest sits at the side of the road.
The feather floats higher into the air.
The feather soars up into the sky and travels up and down, then covers the camera lens.
Neff walks in past him without answering.
Neff is walking towards elevator.
Night watchman looks after him, relocks door, follows to elevator.
Neff enters elevator.
He is pale and haggard with pain, but deadpans as night watchman joins him.
Night watchman pulls lever, doors close and elevator rises.
The door opens.
Across a small dark reception room a pair of frosted glass doors are lettered: PACIFIC ALL-RISK INSURANCE COMPANY - FOUNDED - MAIN OFFICE.
There is a little light beyond the glass doors.
Neff straightens up and walks heavily out of the elevator, across reception room to doors.
He pushes them open.
These all open off a balcony which runs all the way around.
From the balcony you see the eleventh floor below: one enormous room filled with desks, typewriters, filing cabinets, business machines, etc.) Neff comes through the double entrance doors from the reception room.
The twelfth floor is dark.
Some light shines up from the eleventh floor.
Two colored women are cleaning the offices.
One is dry-mopping the floor, the other is moving chairs back into position, etc.
Moves away from the railing with a faint smile on his face, and walks past two or three offices (CAMERA WITH HIM) towards a glass door with number twenty-seven on it and three names: HENRY B.ANDERSON, WALTER NEFF, LOUIS L.SCHWARTZ.
Neff opens the door.
Three desks, filing cabinets, one typewriter on stand, one dictaphone on fixed stand against wall with rack of records underneath, telephones on all three desks.
Neff enters, switches on desk lamp.
His head goes far back, his eyes close, cold sweat shows on his face.
For a moment he stays like this, exhausted, then his eyes open slowly and look down at his left shoulder.
His good hand flips the overcoat back, he unbuttons his jacket, loosens his tie and shirt.
This was quite an effort.
He rests for a second, breathing hard.
He breathes heavily, with closed eyes.
He fingers a pack of cigarettes in his shirt pocket, pulls it out, looks at it.
There is blood on it.
He wheels himself back to the desk and dumps the loose cigarettes out of the packet.
Some are blood-stained, a few are clean.
He takes one, puts it between his lips, gropes around for a match, lights cigarette.
He takes a deep drag and lets smoke out through his nose.
He pulls himself toward dictaphone again, still in the swivel chair, reaches it, lifts the horn off the bracket and the dictaphone makes a low buzzing sound.
He presses the button switch on the horn.
The sound stops, the record revolves on the cylinder.
He begins to speak.
He interrupts the dictation, lays down the horn on the desk.
He takes his lighted cigarette from the ash tray, puffs it two or three times, and kills it.
He picks up the horn again.
As he goes on speaking, SLOW DISSOLVE TO.
Palm trees line the street, middle-class houses, mostly in Spanish style.
Some kids throwing a baseball back and forth across a couple of front lawns.
An ice cream wagon dawdles along the block.
Neff's coupe meets and passes the ice cream wagon and stops before one of the Spanish houses.
Neff gets out.
He carries a briefcase, his hat is a little on the back of his head.
His movements are easy and full of ginger.
He inspects the house, checks the number, goes up on the front porch and rings the bell.
He pushes past her into the house.
Spanish craperoo in style, as is the house throughout.
A wrought-iron staircase curves down from the second floor.
A fringed Mexican shawl hangs down over the landing.
A large tapestry hangs on the wall.
Neff looks up.
Phyllis Dietrichson stands looking down.
She is in her early thirties.
She holds a large bath-towel around her very appetizing torso, down to about two inches above her knees.
She wears no stockings, no nothing.
Neff looks up, takes his hat off.
She glances over her towel costume.
She turns away as gracefully as one can with a towel for a wrapper.].
Neff watches Phyllis out of sight.
He speaks to the maid while still looking up.
He goes through the archway.
Maid goes off the other way.
Neff comes into the room and throws his briefcase on the plush davenport and tosses his hat on top of it.
He looks around the room, then moves over to a baby grand piano with a sleazy Spanish shawl dangling down one side and two cabinet photographs standing in a staggered position on top.
Neff glances them over
Mr. Dietrichson, age about fifty-one, a big, blocky man with glasses and a Rotarian look about him; Lola Dietrichson, age nineteen, wearing a filmy party dress and a yearning look in her pretty eyes.
Neff walks away from the piano and takes a few steps back and forth across the rug.
His eyes fall on a wrinkled corner.
His back is to the archway as he hears high heels clicking on the staircase.
He turns and looks through the arch.
Phyllis Dietrichson is coming downstairs.
First we see her feet, with pom-pom slippers and the gold anklet on her left ankle.
CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY as she descends, until we see all of her.
She is wearing a pale blue summer dress.
He crosses to the davenport to get the policies from his briefcase.
She turns away from the mirror and sits in a big chair with her legs drawn up sideways, the anklet now clearly visible.
Phyllis smiles faintly and covers the anklet with her dress.
Phyllis rises and walks up and down, paying less and less attention.
He consults the policies he is holding.
Phyllis stops in her walk.
She sits down again, in the same position as before.
His eyes fall on the anklet again.
Neff takes his hat and briefcase.
They both move toward the archway.
He walks out.
He hands her his hat and briefcase and continues right on, CAMERA WITH HIM, to a door lettered.
Neff grins as he opens the door and goes in.
A minor executive office, not too tidy: large desk across one corner, good carpet, several chairs, filing cabinet against one wall, a dictaphone on the corner of the desk.
On the other side of the desk sits Sam Gorlopis.
He is a big, dumb bruiser, six feet three inches tall -- a dirty work shirt and corduroy pants, rough, untidy hair, broad face, small piggish eyes.
He holds a sweat-soaked hat on his knee with a hairy hand.
He sees Neff standing inside the door.
He looks cautiously sideways at Keyes.
He pounds the pit of his stomach.
Gorlopis cringes under the impact.
He puts a blank form in front of him and points.
Gorlopis hesitates, then signs laboriously.
He goes out, closing the door after him.
Keyes takes his cigar stub from his mouth and turns it slowly in the flame of a lighted match.
He turns to Neff.
He walks out, still grinning.
Neff comes out of Keys' office and walks back along the balcony.
Activity of secretaries going in and out of doors, etc.
Neff enters his own office.
Anderson, a salesman, sits at one of the desks, filling out a report.
Neff enters, goes to his own desk.
He looks down at some mail.
He reads it, sits down and leafs through his desk calendar.
THE CAMERA PANS with Phyllis Dietrichson's feet and ankles as she comes down the stairs, her high heels clicking on the tiles.
The anklet glistens on her leg as she moves.
THE CAMERA PANS ON.
Phyllis has reached the entrance hall, and as she walks toward the front door her whole body becomes visible.
She wears a gay print dress with a wide sash over her hips.
She opens the door.
Outside is Neff, wearing a sport coat, flannel slacks.
He takes his hat off.
He stands there with a little smile.
He comes in.
She leads him toward living room.
Phyllis and Neff come through archway.
She heads toward a low tea table which stands in front of the davenport, with tall glasses, ice cubes, lemon, a pot of tea, etc.
She pours herself a glass of tea.
She fixes him a glass of tea while he is looking around.
She hands him the tea.
He picks up his hat.
He goes out.
She looks after him.
Neff bangs the front door shut, walks quickly to his car and drives away.
Shooting past Neff sitting behind the wheel of his car The car hop hangs a tray on the door and serves him a bottle of beer.
Neff bowling.
He rolls the ball with an effort at concentration, but his mind is not really on the game.
It is a six-story building in the Normandie- Wilshire district, with a basement garage.
THE CAMERA PANS UP the front of the building to the top floor windows, as a little rain starts to fall.
Neff stands by the window with his coat off and his tie loose.
Raindrops strike against the glass.
He turns away impatiently, paces up and down past a caddy bag with golf clubs in it, pulls one out at random, makes a couple of short swings, throws the club on the couch, paces again.
Neff goes to the door and opens it.
Neff just looks at her.
She has nothing in her hands but her bag.
He looks down at her hands.
She comes in.
He closes the door.
Neff switches on the standing lamp.
She starts to take off her coat.
He takes her coat and lays it across the back of a chair.
Phyllis has moved over to the window.
She stares out through the wet window-pane.
By this time, he has hold of her wrist.
He draws her to him slowly and kisses her.
Her arms tighten around him.
After a moment he pulls his head back, still holding her close.
He lets her go and moves toward the dinette.
It contains a small table and some chairs.
A low glass-and- china cabinet is built between the dinette and kitchen, leaving a space like a doorway.
The kitchen is the usual apartment house kitchen, with stove, ice-box, sink, etc.
It is quite small.
Neff goes to the ice-box and Phyllis drifts in after him.
He points at the china closet.
He has taken a tray of ice cubes from the refrigerator and is holding it under the hot- water faucet.
Phyllis has the glasses now.
She hands them to him.
He dumps some ice cubes into the glasses.
He reaches for the whiskey bottle on top of the china closet.
Neff hands her a glass.
They move back toward the living room.
Phyllis and Neff go toward the davenport.
They sit on the davenport, fairly close together.
He puts his arms around her and kisses her.
He holds her tight.
Their heads touch, side by side, THE CAMERA SLOWLY STARTS TO RECEDE as we.
Neff sits in the swivel chair, talking into the dictaphone.
He has hooked the wastebasket under his feet to sit more comfortably.
CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY towards the davenport again.
Neff sits in one corner with his feet on the low table.
He is smoking his cigarette and staring at the ceiling.
Phyllis has been sitting fairly close to him.
She gets up slowly and crosses to her rain coat, lying over a chair.
Neff still does not answer.
He looks at her slowly, almost absently.
He gets up and grips her arm.
His fingers dig into her arm.
He kisses her.
They have now reached the door.
Neff opens it.
Phyllis stands in the doorway, her lips white.
She goes quietly.
He watches her down the corridor.
Slowly he closes the door and goes back into the room.
He moves across the window and opens it wide.
He stands there, looking down into the dark street.
The rain drifts in against his face.
He just stands there motionless.
Neff sits slumped in his chair before the dictaphone.
On the desk next to him stands a used record.
The checker-board is on the davenport between Phyllis and Lola.
Mr. Dietrichson sits in a big easy chair.
His coat and tie are over the back of the chair, and the evening paper is lying tumbled on the floor beside him.
He has a drink in front of him and several more inside him.
In another chair sits Neff, his briefcase on the floor, leaning against his chair.
He holds his rate book partly open, with a finger in it for a marker.
Phyllis looks up from the checker-board and cuts in on the dialogue.
Lola listens without much interest.
As she looks back she sees that Lola is staring down at her wrist watch.
She gets up.
She starts to go.
Dietrichson sucks down a big swallow of his drink.
Neff has taken two blank forms from his briefcase.
Phyllis is watching closely.
Neff takes out his fountain pen.
Neff has unscrewed his fountain pen.
He hands it to Mr. Dietrichson.
Dietrichson puts on his glasses.
He withdraws the top copy barely enough to expose the signature line on the supposed duplicate.
Dietrichson grunts and signs again.
Again Neff and Phyllis exchange a quick glance.
Casually Neff lifts the briefcase and signed applications off Dietrichson's lap.
Dietrichson has poured some more whisky into his glass.
He tries the siphon but it is empty.
He gathers up his coat and tie and picks up his glass.
Neff is zipping up his briefcase.
Dietrichson trundles off towards the archway.
Phyllis leads the way and Neff goes after her, his briefcase under his arm.
Phyllis enters through the living room archway with Neff behind her.
She leads him towards the door.
On the way he picks up his hat.
In the BACKGROUND Dietrichson begins to ascend the stairs, carrying his coat and glass.
Phyllis and Neff move close to the door.
Phyllis opens the door a crack.
Both look at the stairs, where Dietrichson is going up.
Phyllis takes her hand off the doorknob and holds on to Neff's arm.
They look at each other.
The look is like a long kiss.
Neff goes out.
Neff, briefcase under his arm, comes down the steps to the street, where his Dodge coupe is parked at the curb.
He opens the door and stops, looking in.
Sitting there in the dark corner of the car, away from the steering wheel, is Lola.
She wears a coat but no hat.
Lola gives him a sly smile.
Neff is a little annoyed.
Neff gets into the car.
Neff puts the briefcase on the ledge behind the driver's seat.
He closes the door and starts the car.
They drift down the hill.
Neff looks at her curiously.
Lola meets his glance.
Neff brings the car to a stop by the curb.
He turns around and looks towards the car.
Zachetti walks towards the car.
Neff and Lola.
She has opened the door.
Zachetti comes up.
Lola steps out of the car.
Lola catches up with Zachetti and they walk away together.
Slowly he puts the car in gear and drives on.
His face is tight.
Behind his head, light catches the metal of the zipper on the briefcase.
There is a fair amount of activity but the place is not crowded.
Neff comes along the sidewalk into the shot.
He passes in front of the fruit and vegetable display and goes between the stalls into the market.
Neff stops by the cashier's desk and buys a pack of cigarettes.
As he is opening the pack he looks back casually beyond the turnstile into the rear part of the market.
The shelves are loaded with canned goods and other merchandise.
Customers move around selecting articles and putting them in their baskets.
Phyllis is seen among them, standing by the soap section.
Her basket is partly filled.
She wears a simple house dress, no hat, and has a large envelope pocketbook under her arm.
Phyllis is putting a can of cleaning powder into her basket.
Neff enters the shot and moves along the shelves towards her, very slowly, pretending to inspect the goods.
A customer passes and goes on out of scene.
Phyllis and Neff are now very close.
During the ensuing low-spoken dialogue, they continue to face the shelves, not looking at each other.
She hesitates, then opens it.
Neff looks around quickly, slips the policy out of his pocket and drops it into her bag.
She snaps the bag shut.
He breaks off as a short, squatty woman, pushing a child in a walker, comes into sight and approaches.
She stops beside Neff, who is pretending to read a label on a can.
Phyllis puts a few cakes of soap into her basket.
She nods.
Neff reaches a can down from the high shelf and hands it to her.
She moves away with her coffee and her child.
Out of the corner of his eye Neff watches her go.
He moves closer to Phyllis again.
He goes off.
She stares after him.
He is wearing a light grey suit and has his hat on.
He is standing behind his desk opening some mail, taking a few papers out of his briefcase, checking something in his rate book, making a quick telephone call.
Keyes enters with some papers in his hand.
The telephone rings on Neff's desk.
Automatically Keyes grabs the phone and answers.
Neff picks the phone up and answers.
Phyllis is on the phone.
Neff on the phone.
His eye catches Keyes', who is walking up and down.
He speaks into the phone as calmly as possible.
Neff on phone.
He covers the receiver with his hand and turns to Keyes, who is now standing at the window.
He makes a gesture as if expecting Keyes to leave.
Keyes stays right where he is.
Neff looks at Keyes' back with a strained expression, then lifts the phone again.
Neff on the phone.
Neff gets up from his desk.
He punches his stomach with his fist.
Keyes nods slowly, a little sad and a little ashamed.
He goes out.
Neff is alone.
He watches the door close, then turns and goes slowly to the water cooler.
He fills a paper cup and stands holding it.
His thoughts are somewhere else.
After a moment he absently throws the cupful of water into the receptacle under the cooler.
He goes back to the desk.
He takes his rate book out of his brief case and puts it on the desk.
He leaves the office, with his briefcase under his arm.
Neff's coupe comes down the street and swings into the garage and goes down the ramp into the basement.
There are about eight cars parked.
A colored attendant in coveralls and rubber boots is washing a car with a hose and sponge.
Neff's car comes into the shot and stops near the attendant.
Neff gets out with his briefcase under his arm.
He is folding a hand towel and stuffing it into his jacket pocket.
He then takes a large roll of adhesive tape and puts that into his pants pocket.
Neff's hand places a small card against the bell clapper in each of these.
CAMERA PANS with Neff going down the stairs in his blue suit, with a hat pulled down over his eyes.
Some windows are lit.
Neff comes into the shot and approaches cautiously.
He looks around and then slides open the garage door.
Neff closes the garage door.
Very faint light comes in at a side window.
He opens the rear door of the sedan, gets in and closes the door after him.
The dark interior of the car has swallowed him up.
Phyllis drives on and never turns her head.
She stares straight in front of her.
Her teeth are clenched.
The station is visible about sixty yards away.
Ten or twelve cars are parked diagonally, not crowded.
The train is not in yet, but there is activity around the station.
Passengers and their friends, redcaps and baggage men, news vendors, etc.
The Dietrichson sedan drives into the shot past CAMERA and parks in the foreground at the outer end of the line, several spaces from the next car, facing away from the CAMERA.
Both front doors are open.
Phyllis gets out and from the other side crutches emerge, and a man (seen entirely from behind, and apparently Dietrichson) climbs out awkwardly.
While he is steadying himself on the ground with the crutches, Phyllis has taken out Dietrichson's suitcase and overcoat.
She walks around the car and rolls up the right front window.
She closes and locks the car door.
She tries the right rear door and takes a last look into the dim interior of the car.
Then she and the man walk slowly away from the car to the end of the station platform and along it toward the station building, Phyllis walks several steps ahead of the man.
CAMERA FOLLOWING THEM, a little to one side, so that Phyllis is clearly seen but the man's face is not.
Phyllis nods.
They go on.
Over them is heard the noise of the train coming into the station and its lights are seen.
The train is just coming to a stop.
The passengers move forward to the tracks.
Phyllis, carrying the suitcase and overcoat, and Neff, still a little behind her, come TOWARDS THE CAMERA.
A redcap sees them and runs up.
He takes the suitcase out of Phyllis' hand.
Phyllis hands the overcoat to the redcap, who leads her and Neff towards car number nine.
Neff still hangs back and keeps his head down, the way a man using crutches might naturally do.
The pullman conductor and porter stand at the steps.
The conductor is checking the tickets of passengers getting on.
The redcap leads Phyllis and Neff into the SHOT.
The conductor and porter see Neff on his crutches and move to help him.
The redcap goes up the steps into the car.
Neff laboriously swings himself up onto the box and from there up on the steps, keeping his head down.
Meantime, Phyllis is holding the attention of the conductor and porter by showing them the ticket.
Phyllis nods and takes the ticket back.
Neff has reached the top of the steps.
She goes up after him and gives him the ticket.
They are now close together.
She kisses him.
The redcap comes from inside the car.
Redcap descends.
Phyllis kisses Neff again quickly.
She runs down the steps.
The porter picks up the box.
He and the conductor get on board the train.
Phyllis stands there waving goodbye as the train starts moving, and the porter begins to close the car door.
Phyllis turns and walks out of the shot in the direction of the parked car.
Neff and the Porter.
The conductor is going on into the car.
Neff is half turned away from the porter.
He holds the vestibule door open.
Neff hobbles through.
Most of the berths are made up.
As Neff hobbles along, another porter and some passengers make way for the crippled man solicitously.
Neff hobbles on through.
Four or five passengers are reading or writing.
Dark except for a little light coming from inside the parlor car.
Neff has come out and hobbled to the railing.
He stands looking back along the rails.
Neff stands silent.
He starts patting his pockets as if looking for something.
Jackson takes out a small bag of tobacco and a packet of cigarette papers.
He rises and exits into the parlor car.
Neff turns slowly and watches Jackson go back through the car.
Then he moves to one side of the platform and looks ahead along the track to orientate himself.
He gives one last glance back into the parlor car to make sure no one is watching him.
He slips the crutches from under his arms and stands on both feet.
He drops the crutches off the train onto the tracks, then quickly swings his body over the rail.
Neff is hanging onto the railing.
He looks down, then lets go and drops to the right-of-way.
THE CAMERA STOPS.
The train recedes slowly into the night.
Neff has fallen on the tracks.
He picks himself up, rubs one knee and looks back along the line of the tracks and off to one side.
Close beyond the edge of the right-of-way, the silhouette of a dump shows up.
Beside it looms the dark bulk of the Dietrichson sedan.
The headlights blink twice and go out.
He starts running towards the car.
He runs a little awkwardly because of the improvised cast on his left foot.
The front door opens and Phyllis steps out.
She closes the door and looks in the direction of the tracks.
She opens the back door of the car and leans in.
She pulls the rug off the corpse (which is not visible) and stands looking into the car, unable to take her eyes off what she sees, while at the same time her hands mechanically begin to fold the rug.
The running steps grow louder and Neff comes into the SHOT breathing hard.
He reaches her.
Neff points back towards the tracks.
He reaches into the car and begins to drag out the body by the armpits.
Phyllis coolly reaches past him and takes the hat off the dead man's head.
She turns to go.
Phyllis releases the hand brake and puts the car in reverse.
Neff is again busy unwrapping the tape from his leg.
The car moves.
The car, with the headlights out, backs up, swings around and moves off along the dirt road the way it came.
They are talking to each other.
Their lips are seen moving but what they say is not heard.
They stop talking.
Phyllis stares straight ahead.
The sedan drives into the shot and stops without pulling over to the curb.
The car door opens.
Neff starts to get out.
Neff turns back to her.
Phyllis bends towards him and puts her arms around him.
Phyllis kisses him.
In the kiss he is passive.
Neff going up.
Telephone bell box and the door bell.
The cards are still in position.
Neff's hand takes them out.
Neff comes from the bedroom, wearing the light grey suit he wore before the murder, only with out a tie.
He buttons his jacket, looks around the room, and opens the corridor door.
Fifteen or twenty cars are parked now.
Charlie, the attendant has washed Neff's car and is now polishing the glass and metal work.
Charlie sees him.
He straightens up.
He walks up the ramp towards the garage entrance.
Neff comes out at the top of the ramp and starts to walk down the street, not too fast.
CAMERA PRECEDES HIM.
He walks about ten or fifteen yards.
At first his steps sound hard and distinct on the sidewalk and echo in the deserted street.
But slowly, as he goes on, they fade into utter silence.
He walks a few feet without sound, then becomes aware of the silence.
He stops rigidly and looks back.
CAMERA STOPS WITH HIM.
He stands like that for a moment, then turns toward the CAMERA again.
There is a look of horror on his face now.
He walks on, CAMERA AHEAD OF HIM again.
Still his steps make no sound.
Neff sits before the dictaphone.
Neff comes through the reception room doors with his hat on and his briefcase under his arm.
He walks towards his office, but half way there he runs into Keyes.
Keyes is wearing his vest and hat, no coat.
He is carrying a file of papers and smoking a cigar.
He stops by a majolica jar full of sand and takes a pencil from his vest.
He stands over the jar extinguishing his cigar carefully so as not to damage it.
Keyes puts the half-smoked cigar into his vest pocket with the pencil.
They move on.
They stop at a door lettered in embossed chromium letters: EDWARD S.NORTON, JR.PRESIDENT.
Keyes opens the door.
They go in.
As Keyes and Neff enter, the door to Norton's private office is opened.
From inside, Mr. Norton is letting out three legal looking gentlemen.
Norton is about forty-five, very well groomed, rather pompous in manner.
He sees Keyes and Neff.
Neff has put down his hat and briefcase.
He and Keyes pass the legal looking men and follow Norton into his office.
Naturally it is the best office in the building; modern but not modernistic, spacious, very well furnished; flowers, smoking stands, easy chairs, etc.
Norton has gone behind his desk.
Keyes has come in, and Neff after him closes the door quietly.
Norton looks disapprovingly at Keyes' shirt sleeves.
Norton smiles frostily.
Keyes and Neff sit down, Norton remains standing.
He walks up and down behind his desk thinking hard.
There is a charged pause.
He looks from Keyes to Neff and back to Keyes.
The dictograph on his desk buzzes.
He reaches over and depresses a key and puts the earpiece to his ear.
He replaces the earpiece.
He turns back to Keyes and Neff.
Keyes and Neff start to get up.
The secretary has opened the door.
Neff stands staring at the door.
He relaxes with an obvious effort of will.
Phyllis comes in.
She wears a gray tailored suit, small black hat with a veil, black gloves, and carries a black bag.
The secretary closes the door behind her.
Mr. Norton goes to meet her.
He turns a little towards Keyes.
Norton has placed a chair.
Phyllis sits.
Phyllis nods silently.
Neff, behind him, stands leaning against the false mantel, completely dead-pan.
She looks towards Neff.
Neff is staring straight at Phyllis.
Their eyes meet for a fraction of a second.
She makes as if to rise indignantly.
She turns and walks out.
The door closes after her.
There is a pregnant pause.
Keyes stands up.
He grabs the glass of water out of Norton's hand and drains it in one big gulp.
Norton is watching him almost stupefied.
Keyes puts the glass down noisily on Norton's desk.
With the doorknob in his hand Keyes turns back to Norton with a glance down at his own shirt sleeves.
They go out.
The corridor door opens letting light in.
Neff enters with his hat on and his briefcase under his arm.
He switches the lights on, closes the door, puts the lights on, closes the door, puts the key in his pocket.
He picks up the phone.
Phyllis is on the phone.
She is not dressed as in Norton's office.
He hangs up, takes off his hat and drops hat and briefcase on the davenport.
He looks around the room and crosses to lower the venetian blinds and draw the curtains.
He gathers up the morning paper which is lying untidily on the floor and puts it in the waste-paper basket.
The door bell rings.
Neff stops in sudden alarm.
For a second he stands there motionless, then crosses to the door and opens it.
In the open door stands Keyes.
Keyes walks past him into the room.
His hands are clasped behind his back.
There is a strange, absent-minded look in his eyes.
Neff closes the door without taking his eyes off Keyes.
Keyes stops in the middle of the room and turns.
He prods his stomach with his thumb.
He has stopped in front of Neff.
They look at each other for a tense moment.
Neff hardly breathes.
Keyes shakes his head suddenly.
Keyes prods his stomach again.
Keyes resumes his pacing.
Finally Keyes continues.
He goes on pacing up and down.
Finally Neff can't stand the silence any longer.
He crosses to the corridor door.
He puts his hand on the knob to open the door.
The hallway is empty except for Phyllis who has been standing close to the door of Neff's apartment, listening.
The door has just started to open.
Phyllis moves away quickly and flattens herself against the wall behind the opening door.
Keyes is coming out.
Neff, behind him, looks anxiously down the hallway for Phyllis.
Suddenly his eye catches a glimpse of her through the crack of the partly opened door.
He pushes the door wide so as to hide her from Keyes.
He pushes the call button and turns.
He pulls back the elevator door and turns to Neff with one last glance of annoyance.
She moves toward him but he does not respond.
He pulls her close and kisses her.
Two telephone operators and a receptionist are at work.
Several visitors are waiting in chairs.
Lola Dietrichson is one of them.
She's wearing a simple black suit and hat, indicating mourning.
Her fingers nervously pick at a handkerchief and her eyes are watching the elevator doors anxiously.
Several people come out, among them Neff, carrying his briefcase.
Lola sees him and stands up, and as he is about to pass through the anteroom without recognizing her she stops him.
Neff looks at her a little startled.
He pushes the swing door open and holds it for her.
As she passes in front of him his eyes narrow in uneasy speculation.
Neff comes up level with Lola and leads her towards his office, CAMERA WITH THEM.
He opens the door of his office and holds it for her.
She enters.
Lou Schwartz, one of the other salesmen, is working at his desk.
Lola enters, Neff after her.
He gets up and goes out.
Neff stares at her tensely.
She turns again to the window so he won't see that she is crying.
Neff gets up and goes to her.
In the foreground, Neff and Lola are having dinner.
In the background the usual activity of Olvera Street -- sidewalk peddlers, guitar players, etc.
Neff and Lola driving along the beach near Santa Monica.
Neff is wearing a light summer suit, very much in contrast to Lola's mourning.
Apparently she is telling him a story and now and then she laughs, but there is no sound.
CLOSE SHOT OF NEFF behind the steering wheel.
He is only half listening to Lola.
Neff, with his hat on and no briefcase, is walking toward Keyes' office.
As he comes up close to the door, he stops with a startled expression on his face.
On a chair beside the door sits a familiar figure.
He is Jackson, the man from the observation platform of the train.
He is wearing his Stetson hat and smoking a cigar.
He is studying something in the file folder.
Neff recognizes him immediately but Jackson does not look up.
Neff controls his expression and goes on to open the door to Keyes' office.
Neff is just closing the door from the inside.
Keyes, his coat off, is lying on his office couch, chewing on a cigar, as usual.
Keyes bounces off the couch like a rubber ball.
Keyes levels a finger at him.
Keyes goes to the door and opens it.
Jackson enters with the file folder.
He indicates the cigar he himself is smoking.
Jackson indicates the file folder he is holding.
Keyes remembers he forgot to introduce Jackson.
Keyes picks up the telephone on his desk and speaks into it.
Meanwhile, Jackson crosses over to Neff and, during the ensuing dialogue between him and Neff, we hear Keyes' low voice on the phone in background.
Keyes rejoins them at this point.
Keyes has opened the door for Jackson.
He goes out.
He puts a cigar in his mouth and starts tapping his pockets for matches.
Neff is in the booth dialing a number, and as she waits he looks around to make sure he is not watched.
Neff hangs up.
The LaSalle stops in front of the market.
Phyllis steps out and goes into the market, looking around.
Neff is moving slowly along the shelves, outwardly calm but with his nerves on edge.
From beyond him Phyllis approaches.
She stops beside him, facing the same way, with a couple of feet separating them.
Phyllis moves close to him.
Phyllis looks at him sharply, sideways.
A customer comes along the aisle toward them.
They move apart.
The customer passes.
Phyllis draws close again.
Phyllis takes his arm, forgetting where she is.
He pulls away.
Phyllis takes off her dark glasses for the first time and looks at him with cold, hard eyes.
Over Neff's face, as he looks after her, comes the COMMENTARY.
Neff and Lola are climbing over a low hill in the foreground.
The sky is starlit and music from the Bowl comes over the scene from below (Cesar Franck D Minor Symphony).
As he helps her climb up, CAMERA PANS with them and shows the expanse of the Bowl below, a packed audience, and the orchestra on the lighted shell.
They sit down on the grass.
Neff sits near her, not too close.
It is very dark and they are silhouetted against the shell lights.
Neff puts a cigarette in his mouth and strikes a match.
Neff glances at her.
She is crying.
A pause follows.
She begins to cry again.
Over Neff's face, as he listens to the music, comes the commentary.
About 5:P.M. or a little later.
A stream of office employees is coming out of an elevator; a second elevator reaches the lobby and some more office employees come out, among them Neff, wearing his hat and carrying his briefcase.
CAMERA PRECEDES HIM as he walks toward the entrance doors.
He is stopped by Keyes' voice, off to one side.
Neff stops and looks towards the cigar counter, as he moves towards him.
Keyes is standing there buying cigars.
He is stuffing them into his pockets.
He bites off the end of the cigar and puts the cigar into his mouth.
He starts tapping his pockets for a match, as usual.
Neff strikes a match for him.
Keyes goes toward the street and OUT OF SCENE.
Neff moves back into the lobby, CAMERA FOLLOWING HIM.
As he reaches the elevator, he looks back over his shoulder, to make sure Keyes is gone, then steps into the empty elevator.
Neff stops the machine.
He sits down slowly, still holding the horn.
He is deeply moved.
Neff sits, staring blankly at the wall.
The cylinder goes on revolving, but no more voice comes -- only the whir of the needle on the empty record.
At last he remembers to replace the horn.
Neff has just come out of Keyes' office.
He walks slowly back towards the reception room entrance, then stands there looking out through the glass doors.
All the employees have now left.
Neff is entirely alone.
He moves as if to go out, then stops rigidly as his face lights up with excitement of a sudden idea.
He turns quickly and walks on to his own office and enters.
Neff walks across to his desk, lifts the telephone and dials a number.
Neff hangs up and stands beside the desk with a grim expression on his face, takes a handkerchief out and wipes perspiration from his forehead and the palms of his hands.
The gesture has a symbolic quality, as if he were trying to wipe away the murder.
Over his face comes the commentary.
The lights are turned on.
Phyllis is coming down the stairs.
She wears white lounging pajamas, and she is carrying something small and heavy concealed in a scarf in her right hand.
She reaches the front door, opens it slightly, fixes the catch so that the door can be opened from outside.
She switches off the porch light and the hall light.
She moves towards the living room, where there is still light on.
Neff comes through the arch and walks slowly towards her.
Neff sits down on the arm of the davenport, close to her.
Neff gets up from the davenport.
He listens to the music for a moment.
Phyllis just stares at him.
He goes quietly over to the window and shuts it and draws the curtain.
Neff takes a few more steps towards her and stops again.
Phyllis is silent.
Her expression is tortured.
Neff goes on until he is close to her.
Quietly he takes the gun out of her unresisting hand.
Phyllis puts her arms around him in complete surrender.
Neff draws her close to him.
As she comes out of the kiss there is realization in her eyes that this is the final moment.
Out of the shot the gun explodes once, twice.
Phyllis quivers in his arms.
Her eyes fill with tears.
Her head falls limp against his shoulder.
Slowly he lifts her and carries her to the davenport.
He lays her down on it carefully, almost tenderly.
The moonlight coming in at the French doors shines on the anklet.
He looks at it for the last time and slowly turns away.
As he does so, he puts his hand inside his coat and it comes out with blood on it.
Only then is it apparent that Phyllis' shot actually did hit him.
He looks at the blood on his fingers with a dazed expression and quickly goes out of the room, the way he came.
Neff comes out of the house.
He closes the front door with his right hand.
His left arm hangs limp.
He takes a few steps down the walk, then suddenly hears somebody approaching.
He moves behind the palm tree near the walk.
A man comes up the steps towards the front door -- Zachetti.
Just as he reaches the door, Neff calls to him.
Zachetti turns and approaches him slowly.
He takes some loose change out of his pocket and holds out a coin.
Neff starts to drop the nickel into Zachetti's handkerchief pocket.
Zachetti knocks his hand away.
Zachetti just stares at him.
Neff moves again to put the nickel into Zachetti's pocket.
This time Zachetti allows him to do it.
Zachetti goes slowly past him.
Neff grabs him and pushes him almost violently down the walk.
Zachetti goes out of shot.
The sound of his steps dies away as Neff looks after him.
Neff moves off through the shrubbery toward the side of the house where he parked his car.
The desk lamp is still lighted.
Outside the windows, the dawn is slowly breaking.
Neff is still clutching the horn of the dictaphone.
He is very weak by now, and his voice holds a note of utter exhaustion.
Suddenly he stops his dictation with an instinctive feeling that he is not alone in the room.
As he turns in his chair the CAMERA PULLS BACK slowly.
The office door is wide open.
Keyes is standing a few steps inside it.
Behind him, on the balcony outside, stands the night watchman and the colored janitor, peering curiously into the room over Keyes' shoulder.
Slowly, and without taking his eyes off Neff's face, Keyes reaches back and pushes the door shut.
Neff hangs up the dictaphone horn.
He looks at Keyes with a faint, tired grin and speaks very slowly.
Keyes moves towards him a few steps and stands without answering.
Keyes, staring at him, still does not answer.
Neff makes a motion indicating the used cylinders standing on the desk.
They stare at each other for a long moment, then, with intense effort Neff gets up on his feet and stands there swaying a little.
His face is covered with sweat.
His shoulder is bleeding.
He is on the verge of collapse.
Neff starts to move towards the door, staggering a little, holding himself upright with great effort.
Neff has reached the door.
He twists the knob and drags the door open.
He turns in it to look back at Keyes' implacable face.
Neff goes out, leaving the door wide open.
THE CAMERA FOLLOWS his staggering walk along the BALCONY TOWARDS THE ELEVATOR LOBBY.
The sound of his breathing is so harsh and loud that for a moment it dominates the scene.
Finally he reaches the swing doors leading into the lobby and starts to push them open.
At this moment he collapses.
He clutches the edge of the door and as it swings around with him he falls to the floor.
He tries to struggle up but cannot rise.
Then there are footsteps growing louder along the balcony and Keyes walks slowly into the shot.
He kneels down beside Neff.
Neff manages a faint smile.
He gets a loose cigarette out of his pocket and puts it between his lips.
Then with great difficulty he gets out a match, tries to strike it, but is too weak.
Keyes takes the match out of his hand, strikes it for him and lights his cigarette.
In contrast to those about him, there is tension in Godse's face, an air of danger in his movements.
He glances at two policemen who are talking casually, absorbed in their own gossip -- then he looks back at another Tonga that pulls up just behind his.
Two young men (Apte and Karkare) meet Godse's gaze, and again we get the sense of imminent danger.
They descend and pay their driver absently, their eyes watching the crowd.
Sitting along in the shadows of a stationary Tonga a little distance down the street an elderly man (Prakash) with a short, close-cropped beard and the taut, sunken flesh of a cadaver is watching.
Apte and Karkare look back at him.
There is just the slightest acknowledgment and then Prakash lifts his eyes to the gate, as though to tell them to be about their business.
Godse hesitates before approaching the two gardeners who nonchalantly flank the entrance.
He stiffens himself, cautiously touches something under his khaki jacket, then glances back at the stoic face of Prakash.
Prakash's gaze is as firm and unrelenting as a death's head.
Godse turns back, wetting his lips nervously, then moves into the middle of a group going through the gate.
A fairly numerous crowd is gathering here, informally filling the area on one side of a walk that leads to a little pavilion -- some devout, some curious, some just eager to be near the great man.
Apte and Karkare move to different sides of Godse, staying a little behind, their movements sly and wary, aware of people watching.
We see him distantly through the crowd.
We do not see him clearly until the very last moment -- only glimpses of him as he smiles, and exchanges little jokes with some of the crowd and the two young women who support him, occasionally joining his hands together in greeting to someone in particular, then once more proceeding with a hand on the shoulder of each of the girls.
The camera keeps moving closer, and the point of view is always Godse's, but Gandhi is always in profile or half obscured by the heads and shoulders of those in front.
He slides through to the very front rank.
His breathing is short and there is perspiration around the sides of his temples.
And now, for an instant we see Gandhi close from his point of view.
He is only a few steps away, but turned to speak to someone on the other side, and Manu half obscures him.
Godse swallows dryly, tension lining his face -- then he moves boldly out into Gandhi's path, bumping Manu, knocking a vessel for incense from her hands.
Ignoring her, his nerves even more taut, Godse joins his hands together and bows in greeting to the Mahatma.
The cheap glasses, the nut-brown head, the warm, eager eyes.
He smiles and joins his hands together to exchange Godse's greeting.
Godse moves his right hand rapidly from the stance of prayer to his jacket, in an instant -- it holds a gun, and he fires point blank at Gandhi -- loud, startling -- once, twice, thrice.
Gandhi's white shawl is stained with blood as he falls.
Amid the screams and sounds of chaos we dissolve through to.
Soldier's feet moving in the slow step, half- step, step of the requiem march.
The huge funeral procession -- crowds such as have never been seen on the screen massed along the route.
People everywhere, clinging to monuments, lamp standards, trees -- and as the camera pulls back from the funeral cortege it reveals more and more.
We only hear a strange, rhythmic shuffling, pierced by an occasional wail of grief.
We see the soldiers and sailors lining the route, their hands locked together in one seemingly endless chain.
We see the two hundred men of the Army, Navy and Air Force drawing the Army weapon-carrier that bears the body of Gandhi.
And finally we see Gandhi lying on the weapon-carrier, surrounded by flowers, a tiny figure in this ocean of grief and reverence.
Commentators from all over the world are covering the ceremony.
We concentrate on one, let us say the most distinguished American broadcaster of the time, Edward R.
As the cortege continues on its way, we get shots of the marching soldiers, of the faces of Sikhs, and Tamils, Anglo- Indians, Moslems from the north, Marathas from the south, blue-eyed Parsees, dark-skinned Keralans.
We see the throng, following the weapon-carrier bier of Gandhi as it slowly inches its way along the Kings way.
Mountbatten, tall, handsome, bemedalled, walks at the head of dignitaries from many lands.
and behind them a broad mass of Indians.
The camera picks out those who ride on the weapon-carrier with Gandhi's body.
the stout, blunt, but now shattered Patel, Gandhi's son, Devadas, the strong, almost fierce face of Maulana Azad, now angry at the Gods themselves.
and finally Pandit Nehru -- a face with the strength of a hero, the sensitivity of a poet, and now wounded like the son of a loving father.
The porter has glanced down the corridor, where from his point of view we can just glimpse the European talking with the conductor.
He looks up suddenly then turns back quickly to his work.
Gandhi glances at the door to see what has frightened him so.
The European and the conductor push open the door and stride in.
Gandhi is incredulous that he is being addressed in such a manner.
He's taken out the ticket but there is a bit of bluster in his attitude and it is cut off by a cold rebuff from the European.
He gestures to the back of the train.
Gandhi is nonplussed and beginning to feel a little less sure of himself.
The porter, wanting to avoid trouble, reaches for Gandhi's suitcases.
He reaches into this waistcoat and produces a card which he presents to the conductor.
Gandhi is still puzzled by his belligerence, but is beginning to react to it, this time with a touch of irony.
The Porter stares -- amazed.
He turns and walks out of the compartment.
We are in a large Victorian parlor in a well-to-do home.
Facing Gandhi are Khan, a tall, impressive Indian.
Singh, slighter and older than Khan, but wiry and looking capable of physical as well as intellectual strength, and Khan's twenty-year-old son, Tyeb Mohammed.
It is said with a dignity and strength that makes the statement all the more bewildering.
Gandhi looks around helplessly.
We see Mr. Baker, a wealthy white lawyer, whose home this is, poking at the fire, slightly amused at Gandhi's Na vet.
Gandhi is holding a British legal document; he lifts it pointedly.
Gandhi looks at Mr. Baker almost in disbelief.
Mr. Baker smothers a smile.
Gandhi looks at Khan incredulously.
He smiles, but his eyes show that it is no joke.
Gandhi glances from one to the other them -- absorbing the inconceivable.
And then almost before our eyes his innocence of the world fuses with his anger at the injustice of it all.
Its tone is chilling, and Gandhi's firmness is shaken a little.
The sturdy Khan is studying him with a look of wry interest.
Gandhi glances at Tyeb Mohammed and Baker, then stiffens, plainly frightened by the challenge, but just as plainly determined to take it.
A wire basket has been placed on supports over the fire.
Before them, a small crowd, mostly Indian (Hindus, Sikhs, Muslims), but with a few Whites drawn by curiosity.
Gandhi whispers, trying to ignore the crowd.
We see the English reporter waiting skeptically.
Near him, trying to be inconspicuous on the edge of the small crowd, are five policemen (one sergeant and four constables).
A horse-drawn paddy wagon is drawn up beside them.
We see five or six women in saris standing together.
We feature Gandhi's wife, Ba, standing at the front of the women.
She possesses a surprising delicacy of feature, with large expressive eyes and a beautiful mouth -- but at this moment she is ill at ease and uncertain, forcing herself to do that which she would rather not.
Gandhi wets his lips nervously.
He glances with a little apprehension at the police, then takes his notes from his pocket and moves to the front of the fire.
He holds up his hand for attention.
He forces a smile -- then starts reading.
It is flat and dull, like someone reading a speech to themselves, and those in the crowd who had hesitated before wandering off shrug and continue on their way.
Gandhi is unnerved by it a little but he struggles on -- louder, but just as colorlessly.
This last has come more firmly, and he lifts his head to the crowd, as though expecting a reaction.
Three or four committed supporters applaud as on cue, but his technique is so inexpert that it draws nothing but blank faces from the bulk of them.
He glances nervously at Ba, who is embarrassed for them both now.
He holds it up.
A constable glances at the police sergeant.
And he turns and drops his pass in the wire basket over the fire.
The flames engulf it.
The police sergeant's eyes go wide with disbelief.
The crowd murmurs in shock.
At last Gandhi has got a reaction, but the dropping of the card has been as matter-of-fact as his speaking, with none of the drama one might expect from so startling a gesture.
He takes Gandhi's notes from him, and faces the crowd.
It is the end of the speech.
He looks at the crowd.
Gandhi harrumphs -- gesturing to a shallow box Singh holds.
Kahn turns back, extemporizing rather lamely.
He is facing the crowd.
Behind him, Khan holds himself erect and slowly takes his own card from his pocket.
He holds it aloft and then lowers it resolutely into the wire basket.
The crowd reacts and the sergeant turns just in time to see it dropped in the flame.
He gestures to a constable, who turns from the crowd and marches to Khan, seizing him by the arm and marching him to the paddy wagon.
As he passes the sergeant, the sergeant takes his billy club, and faces the crowd, rapping the club menacingly against his hand.
Behind him, Gandhi wavers indecisively a moment, then takes the box from Singh and moves to the fire.
Gandhi is at the fire.
For a second, his eyes lock with the sergeant's -- and then nervously, he takes a card and drops it in the wire basket, and another.
Again, a murmur from the crowd turns him.
Gandhi, on his hands and knees, blood trickling from his abraded cheek, has picked up a card from the ground and he leans forward apprehensively, his eyes fearfully on the sergeant, but he drops it defiantly in the basket.
The sergeant's fury bursts -- and he slams the billy club down on Gandhi's head.
Gandhi sags to the ground.
Ba screams.
She starts to run to him, but the other women seize her.
She fights loose, but one of the constables takes her firmly.
The sergeant turns from the commotion to see that Gandhi, his head oozing blood, has crawled to his knees again and is picking up another card.
The crowd watches.
The newspaper reporter watches.
Ba stares in anguish.
Gandhi lifts the card.
The sergeant stares at him, angry but his emotions somewhat in control after the first blow.
An instant of hesitation, then Gandhi drops the card into the basket.
The sergeant almost stops, but he strikes again.
A quiver of distaste at his own act crosses his face as Gandhi sags.
Ba's anguished face is wet with tears.
The newspaper reporter stares without making notes.
Khan, at the paddy wagon, watches in wonder.
Gandhi, his head bleeding badly now, rises to his knees -- a breath and he gropes around the ground for another card.
His fingers finally clutch one.
The sergeant stares, his face wracked with uncertainty and confusion.
Gandhi lifts the card and painfully holds it over the fire, then drops it in the basket.
The sergeant slams the billy club down again -- firmly, but with a manifest reluctance.
The crowd watches breathlessly, the newspaper reporter stares.
The sergeant draws a breath, grasping the club, but he bites his lip as he sees Gandhi lift his head feebly, his shaking hands, stained with his own blood, groping for another card.
Ba is gently removing Gandhi's suit coat, staring fearfully at a bandage on his head, another along the side of his face.
The room is gas lit, over furnished in the Victorian manner.
Gandhi sits carefully on the bed, where some newspapers are spread out, English-language ones among them.
Ba reaches forth, gently touching the bandages on his head.
Before Gandhi can retort there is a knock on the door.
A small, round ayah (an Indian nursemaid) pushes open the door and proudly admits her charges, Gandhi's sons: Harilal (ten), Manilal (six) and Ramdas (two).
They are all dressed in European suits, ties and stiff collars.
They step forward, one by one, making the pranam (the Hindu gesture of greeting), then bending and touching the hands and lips to Gandhi's feet in the traditional obeisance of child to father.
Gandhi smiles.
And Ramdas runs to him and Gandhi bends to kiss him as Ramdas put his arms around his neck.
The boys bow and leave like boys used to household discipline.
The ayah closes the door and we hear their chatter at they go down the hall.
Gandhi is stretching out on the bed, taking up another paper.
Ba comes and sits down on the bed beside him, maneuvering so that she can get at the bandage.
He turns and waves to the parlor window.
The three boys are there -- all bigger -- and Ba holds a new addition; they all wave.
And Gandhi turns back, and starts down the long, hilly street.
He gestures Charlie on and starts walking.
Charlie nods uncertainly.
He looks back at the cab in confusion, then signals the driver to follow and hurries on to match strides with Gandhi's brisk pace.
They have come to a turning, nearer to town, the area poorer, run-down.
Ahead of them three youths (twenty, twenty-one) in working clothes, carrying lunch boxes, lean indolently against a building directly in their path.
They react to the sight of Gandhi -- fun.
Then stride the pavement menacingly.
One of them tosses aside his cigarette.
Gandhi restrains him and shakes his head.
He starts to move forward.
Charlie hesitates, then follows nervously, more nervous for Gandhi than himself.
They are getting closer.
The youths laughing, whispering.
One youth has flicked his cigarette -- hard.
It lands at Gandhi's feet.
He pauses, looking at the youth.
He starts forward again, he is almost on the youths -- clearly frightened, but.
And he reaches forth to haul Gandhi from the pavement, but.
A woman is leaning out of an upstairs window, looking down at the fracas disconcertedly.
It is the first youth's mother and her presence reduces the pitch of his hostility considerably.
A snickering response from the other youths -- but they are embarrassed by the questioning disapproval of Colin's mother's attitude.
Gandhi steps back on the pavement, addressing the first youth.
And he steps around him, Charlie trailing, as the first youth stares at them sullenly.
As they stride on, Charlie glancing back.
Gandhi laughs as they turn the corner.
A busy street in the center of the town.
Gandhi and Charlie come around the corner into it.
He has paused before an office and a young girl (Sonja) has come from it to speak to him about something of urgency, but she hovers, not interrupting.
And now he turns to Sonja.
Sonja's tone is loaded with foreboding.
Gandhi absorbs the news stiffly.
A strong masculine hand scrawls a signature across a document.
Beneath the signature we see the boldly printed identification: Jan Christian Smuts.
A cameraman records the moment with a flash photo.
General Smuts, whose presence is equal to his office, addresses someone out of shot as a male secretary removes the document.
The reporter who stands opposite him is Walker, much, much younger, almost boyish compared to the way we saw him at the funeral.
Smuts has risen.
He knows how to concede with grace.
The gaze is firm, strong, cynical.
The sides are half up, but it is dusty and hot.
This is where the magazine Indian Opinion is printed and we see stacks of it lying around.
A short Westerner (Albert West) is running the simple printing press which is powered by a crude generator.
A small staff helping him.
A Sikh, a Muslim, a couple of Hindus, two young boys.
Gandhi and Walker are approaching the tent from the river, Gandhi discoursing earnestly.
They've reached the entrance to the tent, and he gestures in.
This last remark has been directed toward Charlie Andrews, who sits near them at a cluttered table, typing on an old typewriter.
He waves, and Gandhi shouts out to them all over the putt-putt of the generator.
They nod.
One of the Hindus bows with his hands clasped together.
Gandhi hands Walker a copy of Indian Opinion and they start across the relatively barren field toward some other tents, Walker glancing at the paper.
Gandhi watches him, grinning.
This carries a weight and apprehension that none of the rest of the conversation has.
Walker measures Gandhi with a little surprise.
Gandhi seems trapped by an ineluctable fact.
Reluctant as it is, it too carries commitment and Walker senses it.
But they have come by a site where a building is being erected, and a European (Kallenbach) is perched above a doorway on the half-completed structure, getting a level.
Some Indians are working below him.
Gandhi turns to him, light-hearted again.
Walker waves his notebook at him and Kallenbach lifts his level in greeting.
On his bronzed chest there is a Star of David.
Walker looks around, grinning, shaking his head.
We see two women in saris cleaning the toilett.
Walker looks at him appraisingly.
A moment of embarrassed doubt, then he starts toward a half- finished building -- wooden sides, door, but canvas still covering the roof.
It has an awning spread before it.
Walker's carriage is tethered nearby, a Black driver standing in the sun, waiting.
In the background we see two women cleaning a latrine.
Walker glances at the latrine.
Ba looks at him coldly.
She turns back and walks into the building by the rear entrance.
Gandhi is disconcerted by her attitude, but he tries to answer Walker.
A grin -- but forced.
When a girl (Sora) comes from the building bringing another cup and place setting, Gandhi calls to the driver.
And he goes into the building, determined to find the source of Ba's aloofness.
Ba is sitting sullenly on a carpet near the rear entrance to the building.
He crosses and stands in front of her with all the irritation of a husband.
It is hushed, aware that Walker might overhear them, but bristling with suppressed anger.
Now Ba looks at him hostilely.
He holds her gaze as angrily as she holds his.
As she starts to rise he grabs her arm, but she pulls free.
She says it derisively and it stings, but Gandhi is aware of Walker and he fights to hold his temper.
Ba settles back defiantly.
For a moment Gandhi stares at her, and she back at him, resentfully.
He suddenly reaches down and grabs her arm, pulling her roughly to her feet.
It is hushed but violent as he pulls her toward the rear door, opening it to push her out as she struggles against him.
Gandhi stares at her breathlessly, his temper subsiding into a dazed remorse.
He sinks numbly to a stool, sitting, holding his head in his hands.
Ba studies him for a moment -- and she sighs, her temper and breathing subsiding too.
She moves and kneels before him.
A moment, then she soothes the top of his head -- like the mother-wife she is.
Gandhi looks up at her, blankly, abjectly.
And Gandhi grins weakly.
Ba catches it and sends it back, warmer, less complicated by doubts.
Gandhi sighs, putting his arms around her and she leans into him so that their heads are touching.
Ba nods.
Gandhi holds her back so that he can look at her.
She looks at him evenly -- no smile, but the warmth still in her eyes.
The theater is packed.
The front rows near the stage are held by rich Muslim merchants, the back of the stalls with small traders, peddlers, artisans -- Muslim, Hindu, Parsee, Sikh.
The gallery is bulging with indentured laborers -- largely Hindu.
The mood is restless, belligerent.
Gandhi moves forward and he holds up his hand for silence.
Seated on the stage are Khan, Singh, three more leaders of the Indian community.
Charlie Andrews and Herman Kallenbach sit at the very end of the line of chairs.
Gandhi looks around the audience and we see the packed house from his point of view, ending with two plainclothes European policemen conspicuous in seats at the end of the front row.
A uniformed policeman stands near them.
A buzz, then applause -- loud and defiant.
When is subsides Gandhi looks down at the plainclothes policemen, fixing his gaze on them.
And again the audience bursts into applause.
The policemen just sit like stone -- confident, sure, immune to rhetoric.
In the gallery a rhythmic pounding signals the anger and protest and is taken up around the hall.
The police stare imperturbably.
Khan leans towards Singh, nodding to Gandhi.
Singh smiles at the understatement.
Gandhi holds up his hand, silencing the hall.
Now a violent response -- a large, powerful merchant rises in the third row.
Another cheer.
When it subsides, Tyeb Mohammed rises near the back, where he is seated with a number of other young men.
The police half rise to look back at him, but there is a smattering of applause and several stand to look back.
Gandhi waits, then.
He looks at the audience.
This is the more sober Gandhi they have come to know.
He looks down at the police, making the point stick.
There is a tentative reaction from the audience, but uncertain.
He has their attention now.
And now he gets the response he has wanted.
Firm, mature, determined.
Gandhi holds up his hand.
He looks at the audience.
A second, then a merchant stands, signifying his pledge.
Then Tyeb Mohammed and the youths about him.
Then all over the theater they begin to stand and on the stage until everyone is standing.
Gandhi looks at the full theater -- all standing.
He takes a step forward.
A prison door slams: we are close on one face, another slam, another face, and again and again in the rhythm of marching feet.
Gandhi, Singh and Tyeb Mohammed are leading a large procession of Indian mine workers along a dirt road from a mining complex -- sheds, elevator platforms, pulleys -- toward a distant city.
Tyeb Mohammed suddenly touches Gandhi's arm and nods ahead.
A canvas-topped open touring car (circa 1910) pulls out from a turning between two factory buildings and comes towards them.
There is a little hesitation in the ranks as the car approaches.
In it we can see two uniformed policemen and a civilian.
The car swings across the center of the road and stops right in front of Gandhi.
The civilian smiles slowly.
He looks from Gandhi to the miners.
The civilian looks at him sharply, then smiles derisively, signaling the car off.
As it pulls away, Tyeb Mohammed and Singh come up to Gandhi, both made wary by the man's evident satisfaction with what has transpired.
Gandhi watches the disappearing car worriedly, then turns and signals the miners on.
They start forward.
The car rides on past the factory building out of which it turned, and suddenly mounted police come swinging out from the buildings and face the procession.
Tracking back before Gandhi, Singh and Tyeb Mohammed as they move forward, fear suddenly making their pace more labored.
Tracking back before the mounted police.
They come on fast, batons at the ready.
Gandhi screws up his courage, marching on.
Tyeb Mohammed sets his jaw in defiance.
Singh forces himself along at Gandhi's side.
The mounted police riding on, batons at the ready.
He is in the front rank of the procession, watching the horses approach.
He has a blunt farmer's face.
He starts to go down, and others around him, convinced by the authority of his voice.
The sense of the idea seizes Gandhi, and as the sound of the galloping horses nears, he turns and shouts too.
And the miners begin to go down, some face up, shielding their faces with their hands, some burying their faces in the earth and covering their heads with their hands.
Close fast traveling, the sergeant's point of view.
We arrive at the prone miners.
Close on Gandhi, his arms crossed in front of his face, staring up, frightened, but determined to bear it.
The horses cannot bring themselves to gallop over the human carpet; they rear, plunge, swerve.
He turns to see: The sergeant thrown off his horse.
He lands heavily, scrambles up, furious, darts after it.
Mounting, he is enraged to hear laughter.
It is a command, and angry in its own way, but it carries all the weight of his influence on them.
They begin to go down again and the sergeant wheels his horse and rides at Gandhi.
With deliberate, almost fatalistic pace, Gandhi goes first to his knees and then sprawls down flat, his hands over the top of his head, awaiting the blow of the horse's hoof.
Close shot, the horse's head, its eyes rolling as it swerves again.
Close shot, the sergeant controlling it, cursing, but unable to make it plunge down on the man.
Full shot, the sergeant wheeling his horse, angrily -- surveying the whole of the procession as they lie sprawled on the ground, his mounted police circling in front of them, not knowing what to do.
He turns his horse angrily and gallops back toward the factories.
Gandhi, Singh and Tyeb Mohammed are looking off at the retreating horses.
The car with the civilian has returned in the distance.
The sergeant wheels by the car with the civilian; his police turn their horses, lining up across the road again.
Gandhi and the miners coming on once more, chanting forcefully.
The congregation is listening to him stiffly, unsympathetically, and there is more than one murmur of assent at his words.
The clergyman who has given Charlie the use of his pulpit sits beneath it, embarrassed, but sticking resolutely to his decision to give Charlie a hearing.
A few men in the congregation rise and pointedly escort their families from the church.
Charlie struggles on.
More of the congregation rise and march from the church.
though a few pointedly do not.
Gandhi is threading his way in a line for soup.
But it is a line that winds through masses of prisoners, some with bowls, eating, some not yet in the line.
As Gandhi near the two stone blocks that hold the large barrels of soup, he sees that Khan is serving from one of them.
He too wears a prison uniform and there is a bandage on his head.
When he turns and reacts to the sight of Gandhi.
He takes his soup from Khan.
Gandhi looks around the crowded yard at the soiled bandages, the defiant, determined faces.
He is distracted by a phalanx of guards (an officer and four men) pushing their way through the prisoners.
The prisoners are moving back from them resentfully but their glances reveal who Gandhi is.
The prison officer's eyes fall on him.
Gandhi -- now manacled -- is being marched down the pavement before two guards.
The prison officer strides in front of them.
The tall civil servant has been waiting for them.
The prison officer reaches forward and undoes Gandhi's manacles.
The tall civil servant, moving with aloof distaste for his assignment, walks ahead of Gandhi, who in turn is followed by one of the prison guards, toward a grand staircase that is at right angles to them (i.e. facing the front of the building).
People working in offices pause to stare at Gandhi as he moves along, more uncomfortably aware of his prison garb than ever.
The tall white doors open, the tall civil servant indicates that Gandhi enter.
Gandhi passes two male secretaries, and the tall civil servant scoots decorously around him to knock once on the inner doors.
Then he pushes them open and gestures Gandhi in.
We have seen it before when Walker spoke to Smuts, but now we see its full breadth -- and the imposing figure Smuts makes as he stands behind the grand desk.
He nods to the tall civil servant, who bows and closes the door.
Smuts crosses the room toward a small cabinet.
Smuts looks at Gandhi, a little surprised at the frigid tone of that refusal.
Smuts smiles.
A wry smile, and he sits on the edge of the chair Smuts has directed him to.
Smuts measures him again, not absolutely certain how to deal with him.
A pause, and he affects to take Gandhi's irony at face value.
He measures Gandhi challengingly, obviously expecting some contest.
Gandhi mulls it, then.
Smuts stares at him.
Gandhi stands, a little uncertain about the sudden change in his status.
Smuts signs the last document, then sees Gandhi's doubt -- and misreads it.
The tall civil servant (Daniels) enters.
Daniel stares.
Still a little confused, Daniels reaches in his pocket and produces a shilling.
He hands it to Gandhi.
And his own steel shows in the oblique reference to the ignominy of his way in.
The prison guard appears in the doorway, looking off in confusion at Gandhi, then back at the office for guidance.
A British general is coming down the gangplank accompanied by his ADC.
The officer commanding and the Guard of Honor await him.
The young Englishman glances at him quizzically.
The General has taken the salute and moves to inspect the troops to the accompaniment of the military band.
He is suddenly aware of a well-dressed Indian half-listening to their conversation.
He glances at him and the well-dressed Indian simply nods slightly and moves off a little.
The second Englishman grimaces at the young Englishman and looks down again.
Another far less elaborate gangplank extends from the aft section of the ship.
Third Class passengers are disembarking here, and on shore, separated by a wire fence from the rest of the pier.
A large crowd of Indians is reacting excitedly to someone coming down the gangplank but we can't yet see that person.
The young Englishman glances back cautiously toward the well- dressed Indian again, then.
Gandhi is smiling, trying to move on, but answering the questions of an Indian journalist.
He speaks with an uncertainty and tentativeness that he had lost in South Africa, patently overwhelmed by the reception.
An English journalist catches him as he turns.
An exuberant woman puts a garland over his shoulders.
An Indian reporter has cornered Ba behind him.
She joins her hands, acknowledging a garland placed around her shoulders, and pushes on after Gandhi.
Charlie helps to guide her.
The young Nehru, somewhat amused by all the excitement, leads Gandhi through the crowd to a little flower-covered platform.
We see a banner: THE CONGRESS PARTY.
He grins.
He has guided Gandhi to the first step of the platform.
Another garland is wrapped around Gandhi's shoulders, and in some embarrassment, he mounts the platform.
There is a great cheer, but in the silence that follows we hear the military band from across the way as the troops prepare to march off.
Gandhi looks around at the crowd.
Finally he speaks out.
He makes the pranam and starts for the steps.
The crowd is a little disappointed, but they manage a cheer and applause.
Nehru is standing next to a heavy-set, well-dressed man (Patel).
Nehru has slammed the door of a gleaming Rolls Royce touring car, the top down.
He has seated Gandhi in it beside Patel, taking Gandhi's knapsack.
An Indian chauffeur rides in front.
The crowd still surges around and Gandhi is looking apprehensively back for Ba.
He grins boyishly, in part to comfort, in part unable to contain his amusement at Gandhi and his evident confusion.
With Gandhi still looking back anxiously, the car pulls off.
He finally turns to Patel.
There are crowds along the street, and Gandhi -- in surprise that they are for him -- waves tentatively.
Patel waves too but he eyes Gandhi rather critically.
Gandhi is staring at the street.
From his point of view we hold on a gaunt young, aged woman holding a baby wrapped in rags as threadbare as her sari.
Another hollow-faced child leans against her.
A splendid peacock, its tail fanned in brilliant display, lords it on a velvet lawn.
A woman in a sumptuous silk sari is trying to feed it crumbs.
Behind her, Gandhi's reception is in full spate -- silver trays, tables covered in fine linen, Indian servants, a swimming pool, a small fountain, the grounds filled with Indian millionaires and dignitaries gathered with their wives to meet the new hero from South Africa.
A beautiful and beautifully dressed woman (Mrs. Nehru) stands next to her distinguished husband (Motilal Nehru).
She nods lightly toward Nehru.
Featuring Nehru who is introducing Gandhi to two men, one tall, slender, ascetic looking, but dressed impeccably (Jinnah).
The other with a haunting face -- beard, flowing dark hair, the air of a poet or a ruthlessly dedicated radical (Prakash -- whom we recognize from the opening sequence in Delhi at Gandhi's assassination).
Gandhi has bowed to Jinnah, now he looks a little startled at Prakash.
Prakash grins and makes the pranam to Gandhi.
Gandhi nods.
He meets Prakash's gaze firmly, the first moment we have seen any sign of the Gandhi of South Africa.
Charlie Andrews touches Gandhi's arm, excusing himself to the others.
Gandhi bows to the others and is led off to an Indian bishop in full clerical robes.
Behind him we see Patel regaling a small group with some story of court or society.
As Gandhi leaves, Jinnah, Nehru and Prakash watch him clinically.
Except for the servants, Gandhi is the only Indian male not in European clothes.
Gokhale is pleased, Gandhi amused.
Another grin.
Gokhale has started to walk with him, looking at him intently, penetratingly.
It is brusque but affectionate; we know he regards Charlie as Gandhi does.
He still hasn't smiled, but Gandhi and Charlie have.
This is private -- beautiful and still.
Gandhi walks along slowly, taking the pace of the ailing Gokhale.
He grins self-deprecatingly but Gokhale persists.
He pauses and looks at Gandhi -- and for the first time he smiles.
When he speaks his voice is thick with feeling.
His eyes are watery with emotion, but he stares at Gandhi rigidly.
Gandhi sits by a window in the dimly lit coach.
Ba sleeps on the seat next to him, another member of the party next to her.
Gandhi's solemn eyes are studying the huddled humanity in the rocking coach.
Gandhi writing in the cramped chaos of the Third Class coaches.
A broad alluvial plain, the river threading through it, purple and gold in the rising sun.
The camera races with the train along the river's edge, the reflected sun glimmering on the windows.
The sun is high and the train is stopped by the river.
We see an English clergyman from the Second Class coaches, dipping a toe cautiously into the water, children of some British enlisted soldiers wading, splashing, faces alight with fun.
Across the river down from the Third Class coaches a small group of Indian women is squatted by the river's edge, washing clothes.
Some carry infants on their backs.
Some small children stand near them.
Their ritual of washing goes on, but they are all watching the passengers of the train.
Gandhi stands with Ba and Charlie among the Third Class passengers.
Charlie, his trousers rolled up, plays a tentative splashing game with a skinny little Indian boy.
Gandhi is holding a large white head cloth which he is soaking in the water, but his eyes have been arrested by the sight of the women across the river.
Their bodies are skin and bone.
The clothes they wear, which looked normal from the distance, are rags -- literally, shredded rages, one hung on another.
Gandhi stares for a moment, a long beat.
Climbing green hills -- a totally different terrain -- and again we intercut, this time the train climbing: a boy and buffalo running a huge, crude grinding wheel, train climbing; farmers in terraced fields, train climbing faster and faster.
Gandhi is leaning out of a window in a Third Class coach.
Ahead of him other passengers are looking too; some have jumped down.
As they come clear they can see that a military train of an engine and two cars has been derailed ahead of them.
A small troop of cavalry are coming slowly along the line of Gandhi's train toward them.
They are British and their troop leader is viciously angry.
Nehru takes an iced drunk from a servant.
Nehru shakes his head wistfully.
The train passes camera to the Third Class section, which seems besieged by humanity.
People cling to the outside of each door and many more are seated on the central wooden planks on the roofs of the two coaches.
Gandhi and Charlie are riding on the outside of the coach, hanging on through the door, and both enjoying it immensely.
Ba, inside the jammed coach, finds it very unfunny.
She has a grip on one of Gandhi's arms.
The camera has been moving in; now it jumps to Jinnah in close shot and intercuts with the impact of his fervid delivery on the audience.
And the audience cheers him.
Newspaper cameramen crowded around the platform photograph him.
Patel comes forward from the back of the platform, clapping.
He is chairing the Congress.
Jinnah bows, taking his notes, gesturing to the auditorium.
A man made for the spotlight, a man loving the spotlight.
At last he moves back to his place on the platform.
Nehru clasps his hand in congratulation.
Others crowd around him.
And fleetingly, just in the edge of picture, we see Gandhi -- again, the only one in an Indian tunic -- sitting at the end of the second row on the platform.
He is just watching the flood of enthusiasm for Jinnah.
Featuring Patel approaching the microphone, stilling the house with upraised hands.
And again the audience cheers and applauds his little coda.
He raises his hands, stilling them again.
Gandhi has already started to come toward the podium.
He is greeted with mild applause, but already the convention is performing like a convention now that the spell of Jinnah's major speech has dissipated.
As Gandhi reaches the podium, Patel gestures him to it.
Gandhi nods to him and acknowledges the residue of applause.
Patel has wandered back toward the others, his mind already on them.
But he has half heard Gandhi's comment and turns -- a smile, a politician's flexibility.
Again Gandhi grins -- and takes glasses from his sleeve.
This is the first time we have seen them.
He has one slip of paper with notes on it which he has put on the podium.
He puts his glasses on and faces the convention.
On the platform, the whispered politics go on.
On the floor of the convention, some listen, some talk of other things.
Nehru has turned, having caught that last remark.
And now they are beginning to pay attention on the floor of the hall too.
Jinnah too is listening now -- aloofly, challengingly.
He takes off his glasses and folds them and in silence starts back toward his place on the platform.
A cameraman flashes a picture, and someone begins to applaud; it is taken up here and there, tepidly.
On the platform, the leaders join in perfunctorily.
We see one peasant face (Shukla) -- which we will come to know -- watching from the crowd of outsiders who stand in the doorways.
Nehru, who has been looking at Gandhi with interest and some surprise turns to Patel.
An open touring car struggling along the bumpy trail.
Nehru drives, four friends as young as he with him, all dressed in the same expensive, British manner.
Nehru is looking a little harassed, from the ragging he is taking and from the ride.
The ashram is only half-finished, the ground unworked, the buildings only partially completed and the whole looking like some primitive frontier outpost.
They are finally brought to a halt by a goat that is tethered right across the path.
The others laugh; Nehru suffers.
Nehru has half risen in his seat to address Charlie Andrews, who, walking from one somnolent building to another, has stopped dead at the sight of the car.
He looks around the ashram a little dismally.
Gandhi sits under a tree, peeling potatoes.
Nehru and his friends are sprawled out around him.
Beside them, the river; in the background the business of the ashram goes on.
His smile is sardonic, but genuine, theirs embarrassed and self-conscious.
Gandhi has finished the last potato.
He glances at Nehru then drops the potato in the bowl.
He lifts the pail of peelings to Nehru.
Nehru in his fine linen suit takes the pail awkwardly.
His friends watch with amusement, but they too rise to follow as they head for the kitchen.
He re-directs Nehru toward a trough where two or three goats are tethered, but he keeps right on talking.
They have reached the trough.
He meets Nehru's gaze, and for a moment something deeper than argument passes between them.
Then something catches Gandhi's eye.
He looks off.
Ba stands, watching him, waiting.
Gandhi turns.
The goat is reaching for his bowl of potatoes.
He pushes it away and starts for the kitchen.
Nehru grins, captured by Gandhi's seriousness, and his humor.
He hasn't moved, and neither have his friends.
They watch Gandhi as he carries his bowl of potatoes to Ba.
Gandhi plods on toward the kitchen, carrying the bowl of potatoes.
Clothes are dipped in the brownish water.
Ba and an ashramite woman squat by the river, washing clothes.
It is long past the monsoons and they have had to come far out in the riverbed to the water.
But they are laughing at their task.
Gandhi sits cross-legged, watching solemnly as Shukla reaches with his fingers into a bowl to eat.
The fingers are thin, half-starved, like the man himself.
He looks up at Gandhi almost sheepishly.
Ba sits at one side in the shadows watching him as intently as Gandhi.
His voice is choked and near to tears, resonant with the unspoken agony his words mean for him and the others like him.
He looks at Gandhi nervously for a moment, then puts the food to his mouth like a man who is starving, and trying desperately not to show it.
The solemn intensity of her gaze reflects her identification with the man's agony.
She glances up at Gandhi.
The camera is low, shooting along the track toward the light of an approaching train.
From its distant glow we can see that people line the platform of the small station, waiting, but we cannot tell how thick the crowd may be.
The station house.
Again the darkness of the ill-lit station and the angle of the camera limit our vision.
The sergeant is on the low sloping roof of the station.
The captain turns briskly to two of his detail.
He turns his head slowly, his mouth agape at His point of view.
The whole of the obscurely lit platform is covered thick with waiting crowds.
They engulf the station house, back and front, and on the other side of the train more people are packed all along its length, and beyond them along the narrow street that stretches through the little collection of houses adjoining the station, every rooftop is covered -- men, women with babes in arms, children.
He has stepped down from the train.
Shukla guides him, Ba and Charlie a step or two behind.
Gandhi moves through the silent crowd, his hands in the pranam, bowing a little to either side.
As he advances, the crowd parts -- it is almost eerily silent.
As their clothes indicate, the area is Muslim, so some salaam (a touch of the hand to the forehead) and a few tentatively make the pranam back to Gandhi as he moves through them.
Most of the faces are gaunt and lean.
And suddenly there is a commotion and the sound of boots on the concrete platform, and the English captain shoves his way through to confront Gandhi down the little aisle that was being made for him.
The sergeant and part of the detail and behind the captain.
The captain stares.
Then he looks around at the crowd, suspiciously, a touch of inner fear, then back to Gandhi.
There is a flicker of recognition, but uncertain.
Another glance at the crowd, this time with an air of outraged authority.
It has the cold assurance of a lawyer, and the Captain is a little shaken by it.
He glances at Charlie who stands behind Gandhi now, and it makes him all the more uncertain.
He tries to make it severe, but it is a comedown.
It is firm and there is an edge of assertiveness to it that the Captain doesn't like, but Gandhi's unrelenting stare unnerves him.
He glances at Charlie again.
Again, the empty severity of weakness.
He looks around, then turns and marches off briskly shoving his way through the crowd.
Where all was silence before there is now the hum of excitement.
Already he has scored a victory -- and as he moves forward again, making the pranam, they return it with flushed greetings.
The early light of the sun illumines the dwelling.
We feature a man in middle age, but one who looks ill and drawn (Meha).
He lies on a straw mat.
Gandhi sits cross-legged, listening.
It is the kind of listening that opens the heart.
Behind him a mass of villagers sits stoically, outside the dwelling, waiting while their case is heard.
Meha tries to speak unemotionally but under Gandhi's sympathetic gaze his despair keeps cracking through.
Near to breakdown, he gestures around the empty house.
He cannot go on.
Meha nods.
Gandhi looks around the crude dwelling, almost nothing remains.
We see two young men, one seventeen perhaps, the other older, and a girl, sixteen.
And finally Meha's wife, sitting near Ba, the two women listening together but Meha's wife looks like a woman who has given up, her hair is dead and hardly combed, her sari dirty.
Gandhi nods.
The words are said bleakly, not to raise false hopes.
He glances at Meha's wife.
Water comes to her eyes, and she lowers her head.
Ba puts her hands on her shoulders and clasps her to her, and the woman breaks, and sobs and sobs.
Gandhi rides on an open howdah on an elephant, his mind locked in sober reflection.
Shukla shares the howdah with him, but does not dare break Gandhi's black mood.
It contains more anger than we have seen him display to anyone but Ba.
A ball is hit.
The camera pulls back to reveal a lush, verdant pitch, white-garbed players, English, a few ladies dressed in First World War fashion watching under parasols near the clubhouse and in the shade of trees with a few officers and civil servants, while Indian servants discreetly serve cool drinks.
The batsman has hit a four and we see him run down the pitch with his partner until the four is certain, then.
The wicket keeper makes a rude, facetious gesture, but as the batsman turns to settle in his crease again.
He has looked up.
A car is pulling hurriedly in near the clubhouse, an officer in it, and people are streaming toward it.
A major is standing on the back seat.
An Indian corporal drives.
The captain looks at his clerical collar, his English face, his determination.
He looks down at Gandhi and shakes his head.
And now we see Gandhi in full shot for the first time.
He is wearing only a white loincloth, the shawl over his shoulders and sandals -- the costume he will wear for the rest of his life.
Charlie studies him a moment, and being Charlie, he understands.
He grins, and it elicits a little grin from Gandhi.
And Gandhi laughs.
And again Gandhi laughs.
Charlie turns to the guard.
The police guard hesitates, and then unlocks the cell.
Charlie enters and sits on a little wooden stool opposite Gandhi, his long legs awkwardly filling most of the space between them.
Gandhi has remained seated, pensive.
Charlie studies him a moment.
A little grin, but his mood remains pensive -- and remote.
Gandhi looks up -- his anger, his determination there, but then broken by a hopeless sigh.
Charlie is stunned, and obviously hurt.
Gandhi proceeds more gently.
And now Charlie understands.
Gandhi smiles; warmth, and sadness.
Then he speaks with a determined purposefulness, a friend's trust.
He has taken some scratched notes from under the bedding and handed them to Charlie.
He nods.
Gandhi meets his eyes -- a smile that shelters Charlie's vulnerability, returns his love.
The very English, very steadfast Charlie fights to contain his emotions.
It is packed to overflowing; restless.
Gandhi sits in the dock.
The magistrate (English) is surveying the courtroom; he signals his clerk (English) to him.
The magistrate frowns.
We see the front row from his point of view.
Two or three Indian journalists and one European.
The magistrate receives that news with some alarm.
He indicates that the clerk take his place.
Gandhi stands.
The courtroom is silent, but we can still hear the sound of the chanting outside.
The magistrate stares.
The journalists write.
The clerk swallows.
The magistrate looks around the courtroom and is only too aware of the mob outside.
The clerk lowers his eyes to his pad.
The magistrate searches the distant wall, the top of his desk, his twitching hands for an answer.
Again the magistrate stares.
And so do the journalists.
The magistrate wets his lips.
And now the court explodes.
In the chaos of cheering and delight, the magistrate rises, looks around the room and heads for his chambers.
The journalists are scribbling furiously.
Gandhi turns and starts out of the courtroom.
Gandhi steps down from the courtroom to the balcony.
A huge cheer comes up from the massed peasants below.
As he smiles down at them, he is turned by.
Gandhi reacts -- with surprise and caution.
Again Gandhi is surprised -- but even more cautious.
It sounds casually ironic, but they look determined, even angry.
The Governor, Sir Edward Gait -- the portrait of the King prominent behind him -- is feeling as cornered as Sir George but for different reasons.
His desk is arrayed with several tall stacks of folders -- all with exactly the same covers -- and on one corner of the desk, some folded newspapers.
He taps one of the folders irritably with his hand.
Sir George looks at him -- half defensive, half defiant.
They are old friends -- the same school, the same social class, long together in India -- and their argument is an argument between friend who accept the same premises.
But even so the Governor feels the game has not quite been played fairly.
Sir George is staring out of the window, vexed, bristling but defensive.
He picks up one of the papers irritatedly, the London Daily Chronicle.
Sir George looks at him and sighs heavily.
Sir Edward stares back, then drops the paper back on his desk.
Sir George looks from him to Sir Edward.
Sir George looks at the document on the secretary's desk.
The secretary turns it slowly so it is facing him.
Sir George looks at it like a snake.
The secretary picks up a pen and offers it.
A second, then Sir George takes the pen and signs angrily.
Sir Edward is at the liquor cabinet.
He turns, offering Sir George a whiskey in a finely cut glass of crystal.
Gandhi grins, dismissing the formality.
Again Gandhi grins at the extravagance.
A polite little laugh; Jinnah introduces him.
Gandhi makes the pranam, studying him with interest after that comment.
Azad gives a gentle salaam.
Gandhi turns.
He stands, awaiting Gandhi's attention.
All the others have been dressed in European clothes.
The handsome Europeanized Nehru now wears an Indian tunic -- much like the one that Gandhi once wore.
For a moment Gandhi studies the costume, then a broad smile.
He looks at Gandhi.
Again the temper of it produces a little silence.
He moves to a servant who stands, holding a large tray with a silver service of tea.
Of them all, Nehru's manner is the most naturally patrician and Jinnah watches him with a somewhat envious awareness of it.
His stand has produced a little shock of surprise.
Holding his tea, he turns to Gandhi with a little smile.
They all look at him with some surprise.
As he speaks, he rises and walks to the servant.
They all stare at him, startled by his words and the fervor with which he speaks to them.
He holds their gaze, then turns to the immobile servant and with a little smile, takes the tray from him and places it on the table next to him.
As it sinks in, Gandhi pours some tea then looks up at them with a pleading warmth -- first to Jinnah.
It impresses each one of them.
But for all his impact, they still take the measure of him with caution.
Patel is the first to recognize the implications.
The idea has caught hold.
Lord Chelmsford turns expectantly.
His firmness doesn't restore Kinnoch's normal aplomb.
He holds the telegrams forward.
He glances at the general.
That takes the wind out of all of them.
Grimly, Lord Chelmsford looks out across the palace's ordered lawns and gardens.
A prison door opens.
Gandhi, in prison clothes, is led along a small corridor to a room.
The door is held open by a prison guard.
Nehru waits for Gandhi.
He rises when Gandhi enters.
The guard signals Gandhi to a chair across a small wooden table from Nehru.
The guard closes the door, but remains in the room.
Nehru's face is a map of concern, but he manages a small smile of greeting.
Gandhi, who also looks worn, rises his eyebrows whimsically at the use of that name.
Gandhi sighs, and their faces and minds go to more somber matters.
Gandhi has listened to it all with a growing sense of despair.
The golden dome of the Temple fills the screen, shimmering.
The sound of a car, and marching feet.
The camera pulls back from the dome, revealing the rooftops, the trees and then suddenly, center of frame, the face of General Dyer -- blunt, cold, isolated in a cocoon of vengeful military righteousness.
He is traveling slowly, steadily in an armored car at the head of fifty armed sepoys -- Gurkhas and Baluchis -- immaculate, precise, awesome.
Behind them a staff car with Dyer's English ADC and a British police officer.
It is a relentless, determined procession, filling the dusty street with a sense of menace and foreboding.
A large public garden, enclosed by a thick, old, crumbling wall.
A large crowd is gathered around a speaker on a platform at one side of the park.
It is political, but the crowd is mixed.
We see Muslims and Hindus, many of them Sikhs, old men, little children, women with babes in arms.
We close in on the speaker -- a Muslim.
He clutches a copy (we need not see the title) of Gandhi's journal.
General Dyer, his armored car, his sepoys, moving toward the gate.
Dyer looks ahead calmly.
The Gate of the Bagh.
A rickety double gate in the high crumbling wall.
Nearer, a few vendors, loiterers and children.
At the sound of the armored car and marching feet, a few turn in curiosity.
The armored car grinds forward.
It won't go through the gates, one fender scraping against the gate post.
Dyer gives a quiet order, the car backs away.
Dyer jumps down lightly -- a man in splendid condition.
He walks through the gate and stands quietly in the at-ease position, hands clasping his swagger stick behind his back.
looking off at The speaker -- medium shot.
Medium close -- the sepoys and Dyer.
He issues his commands in a quiet and unemotional voice, as though they were on maneuvers.
A ripple of panic now, everyone pressing back, but still they cannot credit what they see.
Only one or two have the presence of mind to push clear and seek shelter.
Close shot Dyer, still calm.
Flash shot along the line of sepoys; the rifles jerk and bang.
The crowd, running, screaming.
He looks off at the crowd.
His eyes narrow.
A group of men are hurling themselves at a breach in the top of the wall, hanging there, scrabbling for a purchase, some disappearing, a few heroic individuals astride the wall reaching down to assist their women and children in the swirling crowd below.
Dyer glances woodenly at the panel -- a man in some shock at the consequences of what he assumed was an act worthy of praise.
The Advocate looks at him with a degree of disbelief -- more at his attitude than his statement.
He stares at the panel like a reasonable man making a reasonable point.
The evasiveness, the only half-buried embarrassment of their response only deepens his own withdrawal into himself.
Dyer thinks about it.
A muted reaction from the public section.
The Indian barrister stares at him a moment, then simply lowers his eyes to his notes.
For the first time there is the hint of uncertainty in his manner.
There is just a tremor of distaste quickly suppressed among the panel.
Dyer looks at him quickly.
And that answer stops the Advocate.
He smiles dryly.
Dyer faces him stonily, a seed of panic taking root deep in his gut.
Quiet: the same silence as at the Court of Inquiry.
The camera is panning slowly along a section of the wall.
We are close and see the bullet holes, the patches of splashed blood, the scratches where fingers have dug at the surface of the wall to claw a path to safety.
And finally the camera comes to a close shot of Gandhi, matching that of Dyer, whom we have just left.
He is surveying the wall in the now empty park numbly, desolately.
Nehru stands a few feet away from him, his mood the same, the same benumbed grief and incredulity.
The camera continues its pan -- bits of human hair matted in the dried blood, and the bullet-ripped foliage, the well, trampled ground around it, little pieces of clothing.
The imposing capitol building of the British Raj in India.
Chelmsford is pacing along one side of a large conference table.
This time Gandhi is in the middle and speaks with the full authority of a leader.
The Indian side acknowledges Chelmsford's disclaimer -- coolly, but accepting it.
That lifts Chelmsford's hopes a little.
It is spoken with the cold determination of a man still angry.
The British are stunned almost to speechlessness -- the audacity, the impossibility of it -- and from Gandhi of all people.
The senior civil servant, Kinnoch, is the first to recover.
Gandhi and the others just look at him.
Chelmsford is realist enough to recognize that a faux pas has been made, and he strives to get the meeting back on the course he intends.
He has deliberately if delicately caught the eye of both Jinnah and Maulana Azad during this.
His smile flitters cynically on the mouths of the others on his side.
He looks at them all, then up at Lord Chelmsford behind them.
The top is lifted, whiskey pours.
The camera pulls back.
We are still in the Council Room, but time has passed.
The Indian delegation has gone, and the British are relaxing as a servant pours.
And they all laugh.
There are some smiles, but not all of them are quite so amused.
It is an instruction they all find correct.
A roar of approval from a huge crowd.
We are featuring two British soldiers, their faces partially lit by a flickering torch light that reveals their tense wariness.
And we can see its cause.
A huge crowd is gathered around a platform -- torches sprinkled through it -- and their mood is confident, belligerent.
As their defiant roar carries through the night air we see that Gandhi sits cross-legged on the platform.
Patel, now for the first time in an Indian tunic, and Azad, also in an Indian tunic.
Desai, Gandhi's new male secretary, is with them.
But it is Ba who is speaking at the microphone, who has brought the shout of defiance from the crowd.
It is the end of her speech and she makes the pranam and turns away.
There is applause and noise, but Ba does not acknowledge it; she simply sits cross-legged behind Gandhi, who is talking with Patel and Nehru.
At last he rises, and the noise and applause increase to something like chaos.
In close shot we see other British soldiers watching on the perimeter of the crowd and they are now made even more wary by the enthusiasm of this greeting.
Gandhi fiddles with his glasses, preoccupied; finally he looks out over the crowd and holds up a hand -- almost lazily -- and gradually, but quite definitely, the crowd stills.
We intercut with the crowd, listening raptly.
Gandhi holds up one finger.
Neither of these goals is easy, and the audience reaction shows it.
Now Gandhi raises a third finger.
And the crowd breaks into stamping and applause.
Gandhi lets it run for a time, then stills it with the one small gesture as before.
This has sobered the audience somewhat.
Now he looks out across them as though seeking something.
There is an excited stir; he silences it.
As suitcoats, shirts, vests, trousers, are flung into a pile.
Featuring the two British soldiers -- later -- on the edge of the crowd, staring off, their faces now brightly lit by darting flames.
A huge triangular pile burns before the platform, an excited half-naked crowd swirling in the shadows around it.
They look at each other with a kind of fear a rampant crowd can excite in those who must hold it.
The small train station near the ashram.
Kallenbach stands by a new (early 1920s) Ford touring car, watching as a train pulls into the station.
As people start to jump off the train he moves forward.
Despite the Indian tunic he now wears he cannot help but look and act like the incisive, patrician lawyer he is under the skin.
As he moves through the crowded platform.
Kallenbach is smiling too.
He reaches for the bags again.
In the chaos of the Third Class we see Maulana Azad coming out of a section of the coach.
He is carrying a baby wrapped in rags.
The child's mother with two little ones hanging on her has followed him out.
Azad hands the woman the baby and she obviously thanks him.
He makes a little salaam to her and moves through the confusion of the platform toward the camera.
Resume Patel and Kallenbach.
Patel grins.
Like most witty men, he loves wit in others.
Patel groans.
They turn back to the train and just as they do, the tall Indian woman in the red sari tips a porter, taking one small bag from him and turns: Mirabehn (Madeleine Slade) is tall, quite pretty and extremely English despite the sari.
The minute she turns, she stops on seeing the now startled Kallenbach.
The camera is on a row of sandals by the door -- Patel's, Azad's, Desai's, Gandhi's.
It pans to the room.
Gandhi sitting facing Patel and Azad, Desai in the background, making notes of the discussion.
Gandhi is carding fiber to thread as they talk.
Mirabehn, seated like the others, is almost in the circle, sitting near Ba, and listening like her.
Ba's spinning never stops.
Gandhi looks up at Azad, Azad shakes his head solemnly.
But he does not go on.
It has a terrible sobriety.
Azad shakes his head.
Gandhi reaches out and touches his hand.
He holds Azad's eyes, giving strength.
Then he turns to Mirabehn, made more aware of her by Azad's reference.
For a moment he looks at her sari.
Gandhi smiles approvingly.
Then a shadow.
Mirabehn beams.
Mirabehn nods and looks resignedly at Ba.
Ba is spinning.
She smiles.
Mirabehn looks at her, accepting the warmth behind the teasing.
It is the beginning of an enduring friendship.
A small town.
Featuring the faces of six Indian police constables as a torch light parade passes them.
There are enough of them in their group to be watching the marchers with a challenging disdain.
The marchers are men in loin- clothes and tunics; they brandish torn and ripped English cloth and shout in unison.
Another angle.
Some of the marchers turn at the shout.
A few of the tail-enders watching, some running clear of the police, some being beaten.
Two police have a man on the ground.
One policeman looks up.
Patel leans with one arm on a table, his mood as devastated as Gandhi's; he is looking at an Indian paper on the table by his hand.
It is a New York Times and we just glimpse the picture of the severed head lying in the smoldering ashes.
And now we see Nehru and Azad in the background too.
And Desai.
Jinnah as usual in a finely cut European suit, the others are dressed in tunics of homespun as they will be to the end.
They turn to him -- a sense of surprise, but they don't really believe he means the statement.
He looks at him.
Patel looks up hopelessly at Jinnah.
Azad keeps his eyes fixed on Gandhi, sensing, fearing what is going to happen.
He looks at Gandhi with a mounting sense of annoyance.
Gandhi is listening, but still withdrawn into himself.
Jinnah turns away in anger.
Patel sighs.
Nehru feels helpless but he continues to try.
Gandhi stares into nothing -- mulling that.
Finally.
Nehru stares at him -- surprised.
And Nehru ignores the thought too, because like Azad his mind is already on the real danger.
Gandhi looks up at him -- a resigned fatalism.
Mirabehn walks across the grounds toward Gandhi's bungalow.
She carries a small tray with a pitcher and a glass.
We see a few people working in the background, and a mass of people camped near the entrance, some sprawled, some sitting, some standing -- all waiting.
The steps of Gandhi's bungalow.
A doctor in a white tunic sits on the porch, reading.
On a small table beside him we a stethoscope and the equipment to measure blood pressure.
He looks up at Mirabehn as she mounts the steps, and nods.
Mirabehn reaches the doorway and is suddenly brought up.
In the shadows, Ba sits by Gandhi's mat bed.
She is holding him as he heaves in a spasm of dry retching, his face to the wall.
When he is finished, he lies almost limp in her arms and she gently lowers him to the mat.
She strokes his head.
Mirabehn stiffens herself.
She is not yet devotee and nurse.
She removes her sandals and walks across the room.
She strokes his sweating head again, touches his shoulder and gets up.
For a moment the two women hold each other's gaze, then Ba smiles weakly, and leans her head into the taller Mirabehn's shoulder.
Then Ba straightens, and leaves without looking back.
Mirabehn bends and sits by Gandhi's side.
Gandhi struggles to turn, and Mirabehn helps him.
When he turns we see that his face is wet with sweat from the dry heaving and his hands and arms are quivering and he cannot stop them.
She looks at him nervously, then pours a glass from the pitcher.
She turns back, and propping up his head, helps him to sip.
Gandhi swallows with difficulty.
He pauses, letting his head fall back and she lowers it down to the mat again.
He tries to smile.
Mirabehn looks daunted by his intractability.
Gandhi signals her down to him.
She bends so she is looking at the floor and he is speaking almost into her ear.
We intercut their faces, very close, as he speaks.
During the very last of it Mirabehn has turned her face to him, touched with emotion.
She starts to pour water from the pitcher into the glass again, then she turns suddenly, her attention caught.
Her point of view.
The doorway.
Nehru stands in it.
Kallenbach and Desai are a step or two behind him.
It is a victory.
Gandhi's face cracks into a tearful grin.
And Nehru chokes with emotion and laughter at the same time.
He buries his head on Gandhi's hand, clutching it to him.
Bright sunshine.
A little boy is pulling a goat by a tether.
He turns with a bright smile.
Gandhi is walking, holding Ba's shoulder for support with one hand, and Mirabehn's with the other.
Nehru stares at him and the policemen with growing incredulity.
It stops Nehru.
He looks at Gandhi and sighs in unmastered frustration, but he moves to Gandhi's side.
Gandhi turns to Mirabehn.
He laughs and Nehru struggles to join in the joke.
A quiet hum in a packed courtroom.
Armed sepoys line the wall.
Featuring Judge Broomfield and the clerk.
The Judge is flipping through documents on the case, a troubled frown on his face.
At last, he shuts the folder and nods to the clerk.
The clerk turns and says in a moderately loud voice.
The sergeant-at-arms turns and moves to the door at the side of the bench.
The courtroom immediately falls silent.
The sergeant-at-arms opens the door -- a moment -- and Gandhi enters slowly.
He has recovered a bit more, but he still moves slowly.
As Gandhi enters, he lowers his glasses, places them on his desk, and rises, facing Gandhi.
Featuring two English court reporters.
One nudges the other in astonishment, signaling off toward the judge.
The clerk, confused as well as astonished, see the judge standing, facing Gandhi in respect, and dutifully, he too stands.
A disbelieving exchange of glances, the sound of others standing around them.
The whole court rises, the astounded reporters the last of all.
He takes the prisoner's stand.
He looks around, a little surprised, a little affected by the demonstration.
He looks up at the judge.
For a minute their eyes meet, the judge makes a little bow to Gandhi.
Gandhi reciprocates.
and the judge sits down.
Featuring the reporters shrugging incredulously to each other, as they sit once more.
The Advocate General is speaking from a folded journal.
There is a little shock of reaction around the courtroom.
The Advocate General smiles with a brittle disdain, then he turns to the judge.
The judge nods.
He turns, glancing at the empty table for defense counsel, and then to Gandhi.
It is almost a cruel challenge to the obviously humane Broomfield.
The reporters scribble, watching the Judge even as they write, because the mere doubt in the Judge's face reflects on the whole position of the British to India.
He lowers his glasses soberly, staring at them for a moment.
He looks up at Gandhi and his own respect for him is almost poignantly manifest.
A stunned intake of breath from the whole courtroom, then in absolute silence the clerk scribbles the sentence in his notebook.
The Judge lowers his eyes.
He folds, and refolds his glasses and then without looking at anyone he rises.
The court rises and he walks stiffly to his chambers.
He stands, staring at Broomfield, and now it is his face that shows the respect.
From far above the hills we see a car traveling along the road.
Its style tells us some years have passed.
The reporter from the New York Times, whom we first saw as a younger man in South Africa.
He is in an open car, turning back to look at something, his face intrigued by what he sees.
We see from Walker's point of view an Indian woman walking along the road, leading a tall camel that carries sacks of produce.
Two young girls in ragged saris walk with her, and a boy of eight leads a smaller camel behind them.
They are staring off at the car.
The car is an early Morris Minor.
Collins glances at him in surprise as he steers the car around another procession of camels heading toward the port.
He is looking straight ahead.
Across the emptiness of the temple, Ba faces him.
Another angle featuring Walker and Collins, who are sitting alone, in the cool shadows of the temple, watching with fascination as Gandhi and Ba repeat their marriage ceremony for them, Walker jotting notes occasionally, but his eyes always glued to Gandhi and Ba, who are in part lost in memories and echoes of a significance only they can know.
Showing the two of them before the altar of the temple, moving closer to each other.
Featuring Walker, now too entranced by the ceremony, by the depth of layered emotions in Gandhi and Ba's voices and eyes to take any notes.
Ba and Gandhi.
Near to meeting now.
Ba takes the last step, so that they are face to face.
For a moment their eyes hold -- the many dreams, and hopes and pain -- the love of many years.
Walker watches, his own face taut with emotion.
And Gandhi slowly lifts his hand.
Featuring Walker and Collins both touched, the overtly cynical American obviously even more than the likeable Englishman.
Gandhi turns to them.
A tiny, beautiful city rising steeply out of the Arabian Sea with tall, thick-walled buildings, half-fortresses, half- homes, their white walls tinted amber and gold now by the early light of the sun.
Featuring Gandhi, sitting on a promontory watching the sunrise in solemn meditation.
He becomes aware of the sound of footsteps and he turns to see Walker approaching, a little knapsack over his shoulder.
Gandhi smiles.
Walker comes to his side, looking out over the bay and city, truly impressed.
Walker looks down at him.
Gandhi scowls up in the early light.
They both watch the waves beat on the shore a moment, the changing hues of the sunrise on the whites of Porbandar.
He looks out to sea, and we intercut his face with Walker's, the sea, and the town itself as the sun turns it white.
Walker studies him as this profound man reaches, in his middle years, a profound insight.
Featuring Gandhi staring out to sea, his mind locked in reflection, and suddenly his head lifts, his eyes become alert, he is caught by some excitement which he weighs for a moment, then he stands, his manner suddenly tingling with optimism.
Walker stares at him, then at what Gandhi seems to be looking at.
The waves lapping the shore below them.
Walker turns back to Gandhi, puzzled.
But there is no mistaking the sudden glow in Gandhi's face.
Gandhi looks at him, a teasing smile.
The grin broadens, and then he starts briskly down the promontory.
Walker scrambles up after him.
Gulls fly over them, squawking in the growing light.
He turns from the sea to Walker, his eyes confident, elated, then he continues on down the promontory.
Still baffled, Walker glances at the sea, at him, then hurries after.
The waves running against the shore.
He is looking in astonishment at his principal secretary.
His ADC, a general, a brigadier, a senior police officer are with him.
Like him they hold the same offices, but are a new team.
Irwin looks at him, still trying to penetrate the significance of the act.
The senior police officer helps.
Irwin has listened; it's beginning to make a little sense.
The principal secretary blanches.
Irwin looks at his ADC, then paces a bit, pondering it.
A moment as Irwin considers it, then it is the general who speaks.
Irwin has turned to him.
And this makes up his mind.
He is concerned enough to be angry, but certain enough to be dogmatic.
And suddenly a mass of people, hidden by the embankment, appear at the top of the steps coming up from the river, and the camera lifts slightly with their movement and we see that they are but the forerunners of a long tendril of humanity that stretches across the river, all the way back to the distant outskirts of the city.
And around the ashram many fires are burning, people are cooking breakfast, some are packing knapsacks for the journey, others are strewing the path from the ashram with leaves.
Quiet, just the buzz of activity from outside the building.
Gandhi grins, looking at Mirabehn, who is massaging his legs.
Gandhi smiles.
He turns back toward his bungalow.
Ba and Mirabehn stand there watching, Desai with them.
Gandhi holds their gaze a second, then turns and starts forward.
Pyarelal takes up a position next to him, the marchers follow.
A thinner crowd here, but going all along the path.
To one side we see two police cars drawn up, and several policemen (a British officer, a British sergeant, and four Indian constables) lined up near them.
As Gandhi nears them Walker moves up beside him.
Some of the newspaper cameramen trot behind to get the picture of Gandhi's arrest.
Among the newsmen we see Collins.
Featuring Gandhi and Walker, Pyarelal just behind them all glancing ahead at the police, who are now quite near.
Walker smiles -- a little uneasily -- for they are now near the police.
Gandhi nods to them amiably as he passes along in front of them.
Walker is turning, watching for a move from the police but begins to grasp that there may be none.
He hurries along closer to Gandhi again, one eye still on the police.
Gandhi glances at him.
Walker too wears a knapsack.
He nods politely toward the British police officer at the end of the police line.
Walker stops, letting the procession march on by him, looking at the British police officer, then writing busily in his notebook.
Collins stop by him.
A dusty approach to a dusty little village.
Both sides of the track are lined with peasants holding flower petals and leaves, all gazing expectantly down the road.
Behind them the village is strung with the green, white and saffron colors of Independence.
Two large policemen stand arms-akimbo at the front of them all, their postures imposing and threatening, though the impression is somewhat weakened by the children skirting around them.
A little band of drummers and flute players suddenly begins to play.
The crowd starts to jump up to see, and the flower petals begin to float in the sky.
Gandhi and the procession of marchers and ashramites stride down the dusty road toward them.
A newsreel truck and crew ride along about two-thirds of the way back.
A car of cameramen and reporters tails at the end.
He looks at Walker, walking along a few paces behind him, at the side of the procession.
He is wiping sweat from his face.
Gandhi smiles and turns back.
He shakes his head.
And grinning at it, he passes by the policemen and into the cheers of the crowd.
As the procession trails into the village, we see several villagers, knapsacks or bundles strung over their shoulders, run around the police and join the end of the procession.
Gandhi in the center of the wildly cheering crowd, the camera pulling back and back.
and the shot becomes black and white, and we hear the music of Movietone News.
And with that we get the Movietone Music tag and as the film fades, the lights go up on.
A couple of civil servants move about to raise the window shades while Lord Irwin stares at the blank screen set up in his office.
The general, the brigadier, the senior police officer, Irwin's ADC and the principal secretary are all present.
The two men who ran the projector are quietly dismantling it.
Finally, Irwin turns to the senior police officer, who fidgets, but answers the implied questions.
Irwin sighs.
Irwin nods.
For the first time he is truly angry.
His face falls.
Men, women and children are making little paper packets of salt from piles heaped along long tables.
A group of policemen barge into the room, knocking tables and salt and paper in every direction with their lathis, seizing some of the volunteers for arrest.
In the chaos an old man calmly picks up a piece of paper from the floor, a handful of salt, and folds another packet.
Nehru is on the back of a big open truck that is stationary in the street.
The truck is loaded with boxes that contain salt packets and Nehru and eight or nine others are selling them to people who flock about the truck.
The sound of horses.
Nehru lifts his head.
Mounted Indian police are coming down either side of the street, a wave of foot police running forward down the center.
Some of the people run, others deliberately stand fast.
The mounted police converge on the truck.
Nehru is grabbed, and hurled so that he half falls, half leaps to the street.
One of the men with him is knocked along the ground by a policeman.
He is young and vigorous and he swivels on the ground as though to strike back.
Nehru lunges toward him.
And a lathi is brought smashing across the side of Nehru's head.
He feels the side of his head, the blood soaking his hand.
He struggles to his feet, facing the policeman who has struck him.
The Viceroy ponders it -- favorably.
The senior police officer is brought up by the chill directness of it.
He looks at Irwin and the principal secretary for a moment in uncertainty.
As he turns to leave Irwin speaks -- almost offhandedly.
The senior police officer stares at him, then.
Barbed wire stretches on either side of the stockade-like entrance.
Above the gate we see the sign DHARASANA SALT WORKS.
Before it six British police officers and two Indian police officers command a large troop of Indian policemen.
They face their opposition, unmoving, tense.
The camera pans from them, across a sloping dip in the ground, to a huge group of volunteers lining up to face the police as tautly as the police face them.
Walker is off to one side, climbing to stand in the back of Collin's car.
He watches, looking tensely from one group to the other, almost terrified by what seems about to happen.
Collins leans against the back of the car near him, watching with an equally appalled expectancy.
There are two other reporters near them.
From Walker's point of view.
We see Mirabehn and some Indian women quietly placing stretchers and tables of bandages near a group of tents where the volunteers have been housed.
Walker turns back to the two opposing groups at the Salt Works entrance.
The air itself seems breathless with tension.
He has approached the chief police officer.
He stops before him politely.
He turns and starts down the dip toward the gate and the waiting lathis of the police.
A series of shots, as Azad leads the first row of volunteers down and up the dip.
We intercut Walker, frozen, watching the inevitable onslaught, the British police commanding officer ready to give the first order.
He speaks it trying only half successfully to keep the emotion from his voice.
Irwin is in shadows behind his desk looking, still, in some kind of shock, staring at Gandhi.
He faces Gandhi stiffly.
The whirr of a camera, and a swift cut to.
Wide screen, but slightly under-cranked with the bad cutting and predictable music of the old newsreels.
Gandhi, Mirabehn and Gandhi's secretary, Desai, waving goodbye from the boat deck of their ship as it sails -- Mirabehn is holding the tether of a goat -- all of them smiling at the camera like voyagers everywhere.
Gandhi on the steps of Kingsley Hall in the East End of London being greeted by a cheering crowd.
The now gray-haired Charlie Andrews beams possessively at his side.
Gandhi, in his dhoti, waving to a small crowd as he enters the gates of Buckingham Palace.
Gandhi, taking his seat at the conference table among the formally -- in some Maharajahs' cases, elaborately -- dressed delegates.
A gavel is struck and Ramsay MacDonald begins his opening address.
He is in his white suit, the black-ribboned pince-nez.
He sits on a wicker chair, Nehru and Patel lean against the railing, Azad and Kripalani sit on the floor like Gandhi.
Gandhi winds up what he has done, and starts to rise.
Gandhi has moved toward the steps.
He stops and looks at Patel.
A wry, gentle smile.
He looks at Jinnah and shrugs.
Jinnah takes it less philosophically and his eyes burn with anger as he watches Gandhi head for the young girl with the injured goat.
Gandhi is moving with the stream of passengers disembarking from the Third Class section.
Ba and Mirabehn are struggling along behind him, Desai and Pyarelal completing the little group.
A British captain stands before a full platoon of Indian troops.
As Gandhi approaches, a British Lt.
Colonel and his Adjutant (a Captain) move out from one side of the troops.
Gandhi stops, looks up at him, at the troops behind him.
Gandhi shakes his head with a weary grin.
The British Colonel signals back to the troops.
As a detail marches up to them, the colonel's adjutant speaks gently to Ba.
She stares at the adjutant belligerently.
He looks flummoxed.
The colonel and his adjutant striding toward the exit of the station.
Following behind them, a detail of six soldiers accompanying Gandhi.
The camera tracks across the platform and we see they are being followed by a detail of six soldiers accompanying Ba.
And the camera tracks again and we see they are being followed by a detail of six soldiers accompanying Mirabehn.
A jeep bounces along the road.
It is driven by an American lieutenant and his passenger is a woman dressed in an American War Correspondent's uniform (Margaret Bourke-White).
As the jeep passes the camera we pan with it and see the walls of a palace ahead.
Bourke-White just absorbs it, staring at the palace, taking in the experience with the appetite of her breed, and her own particular sensitivity.
Gandhi sits by the window that is grilled rather than barred.
He is spinning in a shaft of light -- and looking off -- as we hear a camera click and the rustle of movement.
His hair, only half-gray in London, is now white.
Bourke-White -- who has been moving, crouching to shoot him and the light -- sags back against the wall, relaxing at last.
She has a smile as penetrating and warming as his.
Gandhi grins and glances toward his dhoti.
Meaning he doesn't wear many clothes.
Bourke-White bursts into an appreciative radiance -- already she has assessed him, and been won.
Gandhi walks along, Bourke-White loping along beside him, a little distance away, listening, but searching too for an angle, a moment that is right.
She has Gandhi in the foreground, a soldier on the wall above and behind him.
Gandhi shrugs but suffers it.
We feature him, low, from her point of view, as he walks on, the soldier pacing on the wall in the background.
She clicks.
A spinning wheel works rapidly.
Gandhi is at the wheel and he is smiling off at Bourke-White, who is trying ineptly to imitate him on another spinning wheel.
The garden they are in has gone to seed a bit, but with latticed fretwork in the walls dappling sunlight on the grass and shrubs it is still beautiful.
She's grinning at her own frustration and she keeps trying, but there's no doubt she means it.
Gandhi's smile broadens.
And they both laugh.
a guard on the wall distantly looks at them wonderingly.
He pivots around, moving beside her, and slowly demonstrates the process, taking her hands, guiding her.
Bourke-White watches him as much as the wheel.
And he smiles a little wisely at her.
His tone is not altogether patient.
She looks at him in surprise and he sighs tolerantly.
Bourke-White accepts it at face value.
She opens another line of inquiry.
Ba pauses.
Again Ba smiles.
She shrugs.
the implication is it was a long time ago.
She looks at them soberly and then they all burst into laughter like girls.
Military move quietly but urgently in and out around the main entrance.
Two military ambulances are drawn up nearby.
A British major comes down the steps quickly.
He is almost at the bottom when a British army doctor starts to go up them.
The major signals him to one side.
They talk quietly and confidentially.
The major looks defeated and depressed by the news.
Ba lies on a mat, a pillow beneath her head, her eyes closed, her breathing short.
Mirabehn sits next to her, rubbing a hand up and down her arm.
Gandhi sits a little distance away, staring at the floor and into nothingness.
Pyarelal sits inconspicuously behind him.
Azad and Patel come to the doorway, Patel makes the pranam toward Ba and holds it as he obviously prays.
Azad has bowed his head and he too is clearly making some prayer for her.
Finally Azad takes just a step forward.
Gandhi looks up at him.
For a moment he folds his hands absently, then he stands.
He moves to Ba's side and kneels.
Ba's eyes flutter open.
She holds her hand out to him and he takes it.
When he goes to release it, she clutches it.
Gandhi hesitates, and then he sits, holding Ba's hand in his lap.
He looks across at Mirabehn and nods for her to go.
Mirabehn smiles weakly, gives Ba a last little rub of farewell and stands.
Patel stands, letting Mirabehn pass before him and do down the corridor with Azad.
He looks back.
Gandhi sitting, holding Ba's hand, his eyes once more on the floor in their empty stare.
A fly moves along a small section of the floor that still contains a ribbon of the dying sunlight.
Gandhi still sits, holding Ba's hand, staring into nothingness.
The doctor appears in the doorway.
He pauses, nods amiably to Gandhi, though Gandhi does not react to his presence at all.
Moving quietly, the doctor goes to the other side of Ba and crouches, and lifts her wrist to feel her pulse.
He holds it for a moment, then lifts his eyes in doubt and sudden fateful apprehension.
He glances at her, then slowly lowers her arm and puts the branches of his stethoscope in his ears.
He puts the acoustic bell over her heart.
a moment, and he lifts it slowly, his face confirming for us what he and we already know: there is no heartbeat.
He glances at Pyarelal, who only lowers his eyes.
The doctor turns his head slowly to Gandhi.
His posture is utterly unchanged, Ba's hand still in his lap, his eyes still staring emptily at the floor in front of him, but suddenly tears begin to run down his cheeks.
The funeral pyre burns, its work almost done.
Mirabehn, Patel, Azad, Pyarelal, stand with other prisoners and the military wardens in solemn obeisance to the dead -- and the living, for Gandhi sits a little distance from the pyre, wrapped in his shawl, staring at the dying embers in tragic and impenetrable isolation as though he may never move again.
Close shot -- Mirabehn watching him her face wet with tears.
A piece of cloth, shimmering in a stiff breeze.
For a moment we hold it in silence and then we hear the sound of an aircraft growing louder and louder.
And slowly the camera pulls back and we see that the cloth is part of a pennant of the nose of an aircraft.
We cut from the pennant to see the aircraft stopping before a reception area, a carpet rolled out toward its door.
An Indian regimental band strikes up martial music.
A detachment of Indian Royal Air Force comes to attention at the shouted command of their NCO.
An elaborately dressed military aide opens the door and Lord Louis Mountbatten, resplendent in naval uniform, steps out onto the platform.
He pauses and renders a salute.
Nehru, Lady Mountbatten and dignitaries.
English and Indians watch as Mountbatten approaches a group of microphones identified as NBC, CBS, BBC, etc.
He grins in his youthful, beguiling manner and makes the pranam to the cheering crowd.
It is cut off by the sound of a door being opened, close.
Jinnah stands by one of the great pillars of the immense portico.
It is a break in their Independence Conference, and as he lights a cigarette, a weary Gandhi approaches him with Azad.
Jinnah's anger is clearly too deep to be left at the conference table.
He slaps his lighter shut and addresses Gandhi in hushed but fiercely felt words.
Nehru and Patel are approaching from the conference room, both of them looking worn and angry too.
Jinnah raises his voice deliberately so Nehru will hear.
Jinnah sneers at the idea, though he cools a little.
Gandhi is staring at Jinnah trying to fathom the source of his anger and fear.
He turns to see that Mountbatten has been standing in the open door to the conference room, as torn as Gandhi by the conflict, feeling it best controlled in formal discussion.
Gandhi nods, and reluctantly the adversaries move back to the conference room.
Gandhi is last through the door.
Featuring Godse waving a black flag and shouting.
We have pulled back and we see a whole gathering of Hindu youths near the entrance to the ashram.
The youths -- and Kallenbach -- look back toward the ashram.
Nehru has stepped out onto the porch and he glares at the youths.
It is his presence that has silenced them.
Gandhi is rising from the floor, where his spinning wheel sits.
He stops, halfway up, listening, then, a weary sigh.
Mirabehn is spinning across the room.
She lifts her head as a signal to someone out of shot.
Gandhi's two grand nieces, Manu and Abha, who help Mirabehn now that Ba is gone, rise quickly at Mirabehn's signal, Manu to help with his shawl, Abha to hold his sandals so that he can slip into them.
It's cross -- he's worried about other things.
Mirabehn just smiles at it.
Gandhi looks down at Abha, and taps her sharply on the top of the head.
She nods obediently, the flicker of a smile around her mouth, youthful, irrepressible.
The beauty of it almost saddens Gandhi.
He taps her again -- gently -- and goes out.
Gandhi is approaching with Nehru and Azad, Pyarelal trails close behind.
We have seen Azad and Pyarelal come out on the porch behind Nehru.
As Gandhi near the car a Hindu youth with a black flag calls to him.
They are all awed, timid even in his actual presence, and the mood of their gathering has changed altogether.
Gandhi looks at the youth and the line of others.
He sweeps them sternly with his eyes, all his fatigue and strain showing.
And he lowers his head and moves on to the car, where Kallenbach holds the door for him, Nehru, Azad and Pyarelal following.
As they get into the car, we see the car that sits by the two trucks that have brought the youths.
In the back seat we see two men, one of whom is Prakash (The bearded man at Gandhi's assassination).
Jinnah is on the small balcony of this elaborate room.
He is looking down in a slightly supercilious manner.
As usual he is impeccably dressed.
He has been looking at Gandhi, who sits on the floor of the large room some distance from him, just lifting his head from prayers.
Nehru, Patel and Azad are on the same side of the room as Gandhi.
They rise from prayer as Jinnah comes down the steps to them.
Gandhi hesitates, then begins.
And Jinnah has drawn himself up.
His vanity is too great not to be touched by that prospect.
He measures Gandhi for a moment to see that he is sincere, and when he is satisfied with that, he turns slowly to Nehru, Patel and Azad.
Nehru glances at Patel.
They have all been taken by surprise by the offer -- and do not feel what Gandhi feels.
Nehru looks hesitantly at Gandhi.
It bears the stamp of undeniable truth.
Gandhi's eyes sag with the despair of a man whose last hope, whose faith, has crumbled around him.
Gandhi stares at him numbly.
On a platform in the foreground Mountbatten and Nehru.
A band plays the Indian National Anthem loudly and there is the roar of a tremendous crowd as the green, white and saffron flag of India is raised on the flagpole.
On a platform in the foreground Jinnah and a British plenipotentiary.
A band plays the new Pakistani National Anthem loudly and there is the roar of a tremendous crowd as the white, green with white crescent, flag of Pakistan is raised on the flagpole.
The little flagpole is empty, the rope dangling, flapping loosely down the pole.
Gandhi sits on the porch of his bungalow, spinning.
The hum of the spinning wheel.
Inside we can just see Mirabehn, spinning too.
But apart from that, he is alone; the whole ashram seems deserted.
Patel reacts to that -- surprise, apprehension.
Patel and Azad are there and Pyarelal of course, and with them now the giant figure of Abdul Ghaffar Khan, the first time we have seen him among Gandhi's intimate group.
It is an empty and despairing echo of Gandhi's words.
He has turned and seen Gandhi standing slowly.
It has almost stopped him.
He is moving toward the door.
It stops them all.
Gandhi turns, looks at him bleakly.
There are fires, the sounds of spasmodic gunfire, of looting, screams, the roar of police vehicles and occasional sirens.
The camera zooms in on a poor quarter of artisan dwellings in narrow streets.
Outside one of the houses is a car, an army jeep, policemen, a few soldiers and a group of people.
It seems a little island of calm in a sea of wild chaos.
On the roof of the house, a figure moves into the light.
He peers down at the dark, rioting streets.
Azad, Tahib, a Muslim whose house this is, Mirabehn and Pyarelal are with him along Abdul Ghaffar Khan.
A police commissioner moves to Gandhi's side, demanding his attention.
A surging gang of youths, many carrying torches, and far outnumbering the little group of police and soldiers, are shouting up at the roof.
We see three or four black flags and stains of blood on many of them.
A few hold knives still wet with blood.
It is a comment too grave for glibness, and Gandhi is obviously struck by the pain of it.
He pauses for a moment, staring down at the youth.
Nehru lowers his head again; it is like another burden on a man who already has too many.
He grips his temples.
Nehru thinks on it solemnly, then nods yes.
The sounds of rioting and looting on nearby streets, but here a mass of people are gathered.
Many youths with black flags.
It runs up the side of the building and is lined with waiting people.
Azad clears someone aside and ushers Nehru and Patel under the canopy awning.
Nehru pauses as he lowers his head.
Gandhi lies curled awkwardly on his side of the cot.
He is writing, Pyarelal taking the pages as he finishes, both ignoring all the people, the sounds of gunfire and distant shouting, but he looks tired and tightens his jaw occasionally in pain.
A doctor sits near the foot of the cot, Abdul Ghaffar Khan beyond him.
Near the other edge of the canopied area, Mirabehn sits with Bourke-White.
They are whispering quietly, but Mirabehn has stopped on seeing Nehru and she smiles a relieved greeting.
She knows Gandhi's feeling for him.
Bourke-White stares at him and Patel for a second and then her hand goes slowly, almost reflexively, for her camera.
Nehru crosses and kneels so that he is almost at Gandhi's eyeline.
Gandhi must take his eyes from his writing to look, and he is almost moved to tears at the sight of Nehru.
His hand shakes a little as he holds it out to him.
Gandhi turns to pat their joined hands with his other hand.
He does so with effort, and at last he sees Patel.
Patel sits near the head of the cot so the three of them are on a level.
Outside the canopied area, Bourke-White is crouched, her camera framing the three of them.
Gandhi smiles and reaches to touch hands with him.
Gandhi shakes his head.
But Nehru feels he has an antidote for that despair.
Bourke-White captures the sense of elation in his face.
From her discreet distance, she lowers the camera, holding it against her mouth, waiting for Gandhi's response.
Gandhi nods to Nehru, accepting the news with a sad wistfulness.
He glances at Patel, and we see that they recognize that their bland conviction that they could talk him out of the fast was deeply misplaced.
Nehru turns back -- this time no confidence, only concern.
Gandhi smiles, pain etched in his eyes.
He touches Nehru's hand.
Nehru stares at him, feeling the sudden fear that Gandhi means it.
Patel, Mirabehn, Azad, Bourke-White are gripped by the same realization.
An outside broadcast truck is parked among the usual crowd, grown even larger now, and more women among them.
The crowd has spread from him all along the street; they stand against the walls of the houses staring at him, terrified to move.
We see, just in passing, the frightened, apprehensive faces of Godse, and near him, Apte and Karkare.
Nehru stands, staring at them all, his face seething with anger.
On the cover is a picture of rioting men fighting and diagonally a cut-out of Gandhi lying on his cot.
Mirabehn is rising, leaving the magazine at her feet.
She moves to Nehru and Suhrawardy as Azad ushers them into the canopied area.
Abdul Ghaffar Khan sits quietly in the background.
Mirabehn speaks softly.
Nehru looks across at Gandhi.
The doctor, who is testing Gandhi's pulse yet again, glances at him -- no encouragement -- and moves away.
Nehru moves to the side of the cot and Gandhi smiles weakly and holds out a hand, but he is in pain.
Gandhi looks up at Suhrawardy, who nods.
Gandhi looks back at Nehru.
Gandhi smiles whimsically, he touches him again but there is no change in his attitude.
Nehru looks at him hopelessly.
A huge crowd, some smoke in distant buildings, some damage near to help us know this is still Calcutta, and all is not yet at peace.
The camera sweeps over the crowd, past the loudspeakers on their poles.
We see surly knots of belligerent rowdies, mostly young, but not all, hanging on the fringes as we move over the heads of the mass of listening people to a platform where Nehru speaks.
Azad, Suhrawardy, and others sit on the floor behind him.
Featuring the Muslim leader Suhrawardy, leaning against a wall, watching an action out of shot with evident tension.
There are five men facing Gandhi.
They wear black trousers and black knit vests.
There are thongs around their arms that make their bulging muscles seem even more powerful.
Their clothes are dirty -- and they are too -- but they are laying knives and guns at Gandhi's feet.
Mirabehn, Azad, Pyarelal, the doctor and others on the roof watch fascinated, a little frightened.
Gandhi is looking at him, testing, not giving or accepting anything that is mere gesture.
The Goondas stand.
They glance at Suhrawardy; he smiles tautly and they start to leave, but one (Nahari) lingers.
Suddenly he moves violently toward Gandhi, taking a flat piece of Indian bread (chapati) from his trousers and tossing it forcefully on Gandhi.
Mirabehn and Azad start to move toward him -- the man looks immensely strong and immensely unstable.
But Gandhi holds up a shaking hand, stopping them.
Nahari's face is knotted in emotion, half anger, half almost a child's fear -- but there is a wild menace in that instability.
Gandhi stares at him, breathless.
It is as though the man has told him of some terrible self- inflicted wound.
Almost reflexively he holds his hand out to indicate the height of his son.
He glares at Suhrawardy and then back at Gandhi.
He is sobbing, but in his anger it seems almost as though he means to kill Gandhi in retaliation.
A long moment, as Gandhi meets his pain and wrath.
Nahari sneers, but there is just a flicker of desperate curiosity.
He raises his hand to the height Nahari has indicated as his son's.
Nahari has listened.
His face almost cracks -- it is a chink of light, but it does not illumine his darkness.
And now the light falls on Nahari.
His face stiffens, he swallows, fighting any show of emotion; then he turns to go.
But he takes only a step and he turns back, going to his knees, the sobs breaking again and again from his heaving body as he holds his head to Gandhi's feet in the traditional greeting of Hindu son to Hindu father.
A second, and Gandhi reaches out and touches the top of his head.
Trucks with riot squads (shields and truncheons) in place, but they are lounging, waiting.
There is silence, and air of somnolence.
We see the police commissioner, Suhrawardy, two doctors, Abdul Ghaffar Khan, and some others.
Nearer Gandhi, behind Mirabehn, are Nehru, Patel, Azad and Pyarelal.
Gandhi turns to Mirabehn, his face shaking, peering into her eyes.
His weary eyes look at her; he looks up slowly to Azad.
Gandhi looks at Nehru.
Nehru just nods tautly.
Gandhi looks down, then lifts his head to Azad.
The relief brings water to their eyes and grins to their faces.
Nehru bends to Gandhi.
Gandhi holds his hand out to him, and Nehru clutches it.
Another click of a camera.
He is not fully recovered, but well on the way.
We get a wide-angle shot now and see that Bourke-White is shooting one of her favorite subjects again.
She is enjoying the banter, as is Mirabehn, who is spinning quietly to one side of the room, and Patel, who sits cross-legged like Gandhi on the floor.
Pyarelal is working on papers with him but grins at this.
And she shoots him again, as he hands the cloth back to Manu.
Abha is sitting next to Manu, looking at a collection of pictures of Gandhi, obviously Bourke-White's.
Abha suddenly holds a picture up for Gandhi to see.
It's one of him, ears wide, eyes round.
Gandhi taps her on the head with his finger as she smiles.
But Bourke-White has looked from Patel to Gandhi, clearly shaken by the implication in Patel's words.
Abha has signaled to the cheap watch dangling from his dhoti.
He glances at it, and holds his arms out.
The two girls help him.
She is photographing his getting-up and leaning on the two girls.
He moves off, but has a sudden thought and turns to Patel.
Patel nods soberly and Gandhi starts for the door, Bourke- White moving with him.
He has passed her, he's in the doorway.
We see the crowd at the end of the garden, where the light of the day is beginning to soften.
He turns, teasing in his slightly flirtatious way with women.
She shoots him against the door -- the crowd milling distantly, waiting -- then she lowers her camera.
He turns; the last words have betrayed the smile on his face; they have a painful sense of truth about them.
Bourke-White watches as he moves into the garden toward the crowd in the distance.
She turns to Mirabehn.
Mirabehn accedes gravely.
Bourke-White stares at her, then turns to look out at him.
Mirabehn nods, but she keeps on spinning and tries to sound cynically resigned but her innate emotionalism keeps breaking through in her voice and on her face.
Gandhi is moving forward in the crowd, one hand resting on Manu, the other on Abha.
Gandhi turns to the person; he makes the pranam.
Godse is making the pranam to him and he suddenly, wildly draws his gun and fires.
Chili watches a woman on the sidewalk pause to tighten the scarf around her neck.
Chili turns and studies Tommy a moment.
Then, Tommy looks at him.
As he gets up from the table, the other men around the table follow his lead as he finishes up some jokes.
He merely watches in the glass as Tommy turns up his collar and steps out into the cold Miami day.
A moment later the MANAGER, an old Italian guy in a black suit, joins him in the doorway.
The Manager looks OFF SCREEN, and begins speaking in Italian.
Chili stares straight ahead, rubs his hands together, tries to stay warm.
Tommy drives.
Chili points out the window.
Tommy looks up at the hotel as Chili takes a pair of leather gloves from top of the dash, opens the door.
As Tommy pulls up out front.
As Chili knocks on the door three times.
He waits, pulls the right-hand glove on tight, so that when RAY BONES opens the door, Chili nails him one punch.
Chili and Tommy each sit in a barber chair, reading the newspaper while Fred and Ed sit nearby playing checkers.
A car pulls up.
Chili's no longer listening to Tommy, but now watching as Ray Bones and a BLACK GUY get out of the car.
Ray Bones eyes Chili, then nods to Fred and Ed.
Tommy looks over as Ray Bones - smaller bandage on the top of his head - and his man enter the shop.
The two guys leave as the Black Guy steps up to Chili.
Chili exchanges a look with Tommy, watches as 'Mr Bones' goes down the hall into the back office, then turns to the black guy.
Ray Bones comes out with the collection book open, looking at all of the names of who owes what.
Ray Bones steps over to Chili.
Ray Bones checks his man to get some appreciation, but the guy's too busy looking at the hair rinses and shit on the counter.
Tommy watches as the Black Guy picks up a pair of scissors, runs his hand along the edge.
Ray throws the book at Chili and walks out, his man right behind him.
Ray Bones then nods to his man who grabs Chili, holds the point of the scissors to Chili's throat.
Chili looks over at Tommy.
Where Chili sits with FAY DEVOE - thirties, attractive, in a sundress - on her patio.
They each have a drink.
She looks at him.
Touches her drink to the side of her face.
They sit there in silence a moment.
Fay reaches over, puts a hand on his leg.
Chili finishes his drink, sets it down.
She finally looks at Chili.
The strip.
Mesas Casino.
Standing with Fay at Epcot Center.
Chili sits across the desk from DICK ALLEN lots of jewelry, a giant NEON COWGIRL out the window behind him.
He returns the snapshot to Chili.
He turns and stares at the minivan.
Chili gives the driver a look then gets out of the bus, standing there in the rain, his seat getting wet, nowhere to go.
All the lights are out, save the BLUE GLOW of a television coming from one of the downstairs rooms.
The shape stirs, rolls over, and we see HARRY ZIMM, balding, overweight; a movie producer.
He sits up.
He grunts, gets out of bed.
She looks at him.
Harry looks out the window.
Starts looking around the room for his clothes.
One of the voices is familiar.
Harry listens at the door.
We can see this is a nice place as Harry crosses the entry hall to a doorway, the FLICKERING LIGHT of the television emitting from inside the room.
Harry moves into the glow of the big Sony, the rest of the room dark.
On the tube, Dave is interviewing actor Martin Weir when suddenly the screen goes black and the desk lamp comes on.
Harry jumps.
Chili leans into the light, keeps his tone quiet, controlled.
Harry presses a hand against his chest.
Harry lets his hand slide down over his belly, taking his time, wanting to show that he has it together now.
Harry stares back, trying to figure out who this guy is.
Chili nods, almost smiles.
Harry brings his hand down.
Harry grabs the phone, punches the '0'.
Chili leans forward, hangs up the phone with his index finger, casually reaches for the receiver.
Chili hangs up the phone.
Harry sits down.
Harry starts to take another drink, looks at Chili, not moving.
Chili shakes his head, keeps staring at Harry, but with a different expression now, more thoughtful, curious.
Chili nods, leans forward on the desk.
Chili and Harry's conversation gets louder as Karen descends the stairs.
Chili sits with Harry at a butcher block table, a bottle of Dewars and a couple of glasses now between them.
Chili turns aronud and sees her standing in the doorway now, her arms folded across that chest, the Lakers T-shirt coming down just past her crotch.
Leo gets really uncomfortable now.
He's motioning to her for another, when we see a PLANE taxi past the window in the b.g. as Leo's head hits the table.
We see a BIG FIREBALL in the b.g.
FAY REACTS as the FFA guy points to a LITTLE GREEN HAT on one of the tables.
She grabs it, clutches it to her chest, pretends to faint.
As Karen finds herself listening, despite herself.
Meanwhile, the guy's hot, runs the three hundred up to half a million.
Chili starts to speak, but Harry cuts him off.
Harry then turns back to Chili.
Chili looks at Karen.
She's staring at Chili again.
Patient.
Karen looks at the two of them sitting there.
Harry turns to him.
They both look at her.
She just looks at him, turns and walks out.
Chili watches her go.
Harry nods, thinks a moment, then.
Chili looks at him.
We TILT UP this time to reveal a LITTLE KID, listening to a walkman.
Harry looks at him.
Harry points across the street to the Cafe Med where we see a RED FERRARI convertible parked out the front.
We see MARTIN WEIR and a WOMAN with jet-black hair sitting at a table.
They watch Martin and the girl a moment.
Harry pulls out, starts driving again.
There are some of Karen, Harry with a much younger, blonde Karen.
Chili stands looking over some of the old photographs as Harry goes through the mess on the desk.
Harry hands a script to Chili.
Chili examines the cover, the first time he's ever held a movie script.
He opens it to the middle.
Chili looks out the window as we see a long black stretch limo pull up to the curb down on the street.
Chili tosses the script on the desk, moves between a pair of fat red leather chairs.
As Harry moves away from the window.
Harry is tugging the string to lower the blinds behind the desk.
Ronnie singing.
And the door opens.
As the Bear opens the door for Bo Catlett and Ronnie.
Chili sits behind the desk, watching the two of them come into the office.
Chili watches as Catlett comes first.
Ronnie sits down in the chair and hooks one leg over the arm, swings it up and down, his motor running on some chemical.
Harry waves them right into the two cracked red leather chairs facing the desk.
Sitting down, he nods to Chili who ignores him.
Harry already forgetting his instructions.
Chili can't believe it.
He too stares at Chili.
Chili shakes his head, he can't believe he's hearing this.
The limo guys nod to Chili and Chili nods back, trying to catch Harry's eye.
Ronnie looks over.
So does Bo Catlett for that matter.
Catlett looks at Chili again.
Now it's between them.
The guy studies Chili, thinks about whether or not to make a move, when Harry steps in, reaches over the desk and picks up a script.
Chili looks at Harry, wonders if there's a way to shut him up without punching him in the mouth.
He reaches for the script.
Harry backs away, holds the script to his chest.
Bo Catlett notices this.
Bo Catlett eyes him a beat, then pushes out of his chair.
Bo Catlett nods, gets up.
Ronnie sits up straight.
Ronnie opens his coat so that Harry can see a gun tucked in his belt.
Bo Catlett gives Ronnie a look.
Bo Catlett glances once more at Chili then follows Ronnie out the door.
Harry stares at the door a moment, senses Chili staring at him.
Chili looks at Harry.
Chili shakes his head as Harry sits down in one of the chairs, fumbles for his cigarettes.
Chili's minivan is parked outfront.
Obviously losing it now, rubs his eyes and quickly walks off to a row of payphones.
Chili sits at the desk on the phone.
They consider each other a moment until Chili finally checks his watch.
Karen looks caught, doesn't answer right away.
Chili lets that sink in a minute.
Leo sits down in the arm chair, stares sadly at the briefcase.
Leo nods.
He picks up the briefrase as he rises from the sofa and Leo gets out of his chair.
Chili reaches for the door, opens it and looks back at Leo.
As Chili starts for the elevator.
Chili drives a dark road up into the park.
Chili pulls in behind a row of trailers.
He gets out of the car and heads for the set where Harry is now looking up at the sky and yelling at someone.
He rounds a corner, and we see an explosion of light up ahead as we come upon.
As he starts back, he sees Leo's scared look just before he slams the door shut.
Leo steps into his doorway.
Chili shakes his head, starts back for the elevator.
Chili stops, turns around.
Chili says nothing, sits down in one of the red leather chairs.
Bo Catlett smiles at him, doesn't give up the script.
Bo watches as Chili picks up a copy of the script, begins flipping through it.
Chili flips through the script, sees a name.
Karen smiles, decides to wait a moment.
Chili, lost in the movie.
keeps mouthing the dialogue.
As Tanya/Marlene Dietrich resumes her slow walk away, Karen sits down at the end of the row.
People start getting up to leave.
Chili turns to a GUY a few seats away from him.
The guy gives Chili a look, puts his arm around his DATE, and quickly starts up the aisle so that Chili can now see Karen sitting there at the end of the row.
She gets up, they start up the aisle together.
As Karen and Chili exit the theater, stand there a moment.
He stops, looks at her.
He starts walking again.
They stop at her car.
He stands there, watching her drive away.
As a plane touches down on the runway.
He stands watching a row of lockers.
Yayo, now soaked with sweat, is still here.
He stares at one of them.
We PUSH IN.
Starts to move for it then looks off at.
We TILT DOWN to her ankle, hmmm, is that a bulge?.
As we quickly TILT DOWN to the guy's ankle, looks like a bulge there.
Dressed casually in slacks and a blouse.
Tapping to some unheard rhythm and what looks like a bulge near the ankle.
He lights a cigarette, looks OFF SCREEN and freezes.
Yayo leans against the railing, cuts a 'now that's the way you get things done' look at the Bear.
Bo Catlett leans on the railing, looks down at Yayo again.
Bear looks at him.
Chili points to a star on the map.
They both look to the front door where a tall, skinny WOMAN with wild, jet black hair stands.
Karen starts to answer, but Nicki's already hustling Chili inside.
Chili steps inside, checks some of them out: most of the photographs are of Martin.
Way off in the background, a view on to the huge backyard.
Somehow this makes Karen feel better.
Chili follows her gaze and we see.
He hugs her and hangs on, leaving Nicki and Chili standing there like idiots.
Karen fights a smile.
Nicki nods solemnly.
A gardener blows the leaves.
Martin's extensive photography collection lines the walls.
Done in cracked oils, the whole bit.
Martin, Karen and Chili all sit on white couches.
Martin is checking out Karen, nodding.
Martin brings his hand back, nods, lost in thought.
Karen looks like she wants to throw up.
Ready to give up.
Martin cracks himself up.
Karen and Chili crack up with him, Karen leaning into Chili.
Chili watches as the movie star hunches over, narrows his shoulders.
But Chili keeps looking at Martin.
Karen shakes her head.
For a few moments he holds his hands together in front of him, getting a shifty look in his eyes.
Karen looks away now, fighting a smile.
Karen watches as Martin stares at Chili, his expression gradually becoming deadpan, sleepy.
Martin nods, gives Chili a nice dead-eyed look.
Chili exchanges a look with Karen who sits back now.
Karen is thoroughly enjoying Chili's manipulation of Martin.
Chili sits back.
Karen is starting to enjoy Chili's handling of Martin.
Karen looks at Martin, shakes her head.
Karen looks at Chili as he sits back.
Martin looks at Chili.
Harry looks up to see Bo Catlett, dressed up as usual, standing there with the Bear, wearing a Hawaiian shirt.
Harry's smile goes away.
Chili smiles at her.
Hooked.
Martin is leaning forward.
Martin leans forward.
Bo Catlett exchanges a look with the Bear.
Then, Bo Catlett signals the waiter.
Karen, Martin, and Chili walk out to the driveway.
Chili follows Martin over to the minivan, opens the door for him.
Bo Catlett and Harry are laughing as Harry, very drunk now finishes another drink.
Harry looks at Bo, can't believe what's happening to his life, thinks a moment, then.
Harry shakes his head, looks around the restaurant.
Bo and the Bear exchange look.
As Chili and Karen enter the restaurant.
Chili checks out the bar, sees they aren't there, then looks up at the railing.
keeps his eyes up there as he says.
Another glance at the Bear.
And they all look.
Chili moves to the staircase, now sees the Bear in his Hawaiian shirt standing a few steps from the top.
Chili slowly moves his gaze up through hibiscus until he's looking at the man's bearded face.
Chili continues up the stairs to where Bo Catlett stands beside the table.
Chili unbuttons his coat.
Chili gets within three steps of the guy and stops, but doesn't look up, keeps his eyes fixed on the man's gut.
Bo walks past Chili, goes down the stairs.
Karen watches now as Bo Catlett puts a hand in his coat packet, steps right up to Chili.
Karen looks at him.
Even Karen is looking at him differently now as they slide into the booth with a now shocked, rapidly sobering Harry.
Karen and Chili look at each other as Harry finishes his drink.
Harry looks at the two of them, differently now.
Chili looks at Karen, smiles, shakes his head.
Harry looks at him.
Harry hangs up at the other end.
Bones thinks about it a moment, then tosses the book aside.
Phone to his ear, Harry downs another drink, sits up.
As Bones bursts out of the john and grabs the phone.
This gets Bones' attention.
Bones stares at the phone.
He sits there a moment, also staring at the phone.
Chili stands there while Curtis opens Chili's wallet and looks at the driver's license while Dunbar in the plaid shirt pulls the Lakers T-shirt out of the athletic bag, feels around inside.
Chili watches Curtis pick up the note with the Newark Flight number and arrival time written on it.
Chili glances about, makes sure no one's around, then pulls the key for the 'right' locker out from a crack in the pavement, near the stairwell.
Now there's a BIG GUY IN A PLAID WOOL SHIRT next to him, the same guy we saw when Bo Catlett was here.
And Christ, ANOTHER GUY now, this one down the aisle, talking on his hand radio.
The Black Guy has his I.D. folder open
As Ray Bones then walks off, we see coming out a different gate.
Two big guys in sunglasses flanking one smaller, older guy.
He looks over his shoulder to the give the guy a smile.
The agents glance at each other without giving any kind of sign.
He straightens up as Chili exits the stairwell and walks up to him.
Chili looks at him, the guy's either dumb or making conversation.
The Bear keeps staring, but doesn't say anything.
The Bear looks at him.
The Bear nods, closing and opening his eyes.
Harry, his hair a mess from sleeping on it, looks up at the door as it opens to reveal Ray Bones standing there.
He jerks upright.
Harry wakes up quick, nearly wets himself as Bones then casually steps into the office.
Scrambling now to play it the way Chili taught him, Harry quickly gestures to the red leather chair arross the desk.
As Ray Bones sits down, Harry moves to the blinds and opens them.
Problem is, the sun's setting, so there's no glare at all.
Ray indicates the nice red sunset.
Harry just smiles, sits down at the desk, things already not going too well, about to get worse.
Bo Catlett is behind a big wooden desk on the phone.
The Bear, sort of half doubled over.
Three dark-shaded gentlemen step out of the car.
Bo Catlett looks into the outer office as a car pulls into the garage.
Bo Catlett hangs up, gets to his feet as the men all look into the office now.
We can now see that one of the Latinos is older, the other two, younger, are his bodyguards.
MR. ESCOBAR, the older, meaner onesteps into the office.
As the two back doors of a limo slam shut.
Bo Catlett sits in the back, wedged in between the two bodyguards, neither of whom has removed his shades.
He faces Escobar on the opposite seat.
Escobar studies him a moment.
Bo Catlett stiffens.
Bo Catlett shrugs.
Bo Catlett barely glances at the bodyguards, smiles the gleamy smile to the Latin guy in front of him.
As Ronnie zigzags in and out of traffic, giving people the 'look' as he passes.
On the carphone.
Bo Catlett on the phone.
Bones leans forward.
Ray's heard that one before.
Bones shakes his head, stands up.
He begins kicking the living shit out of Harry Zimm.
Ray Bones pulls a pair of black leather gloves from his pocket and steps around the desk.
Bones grabs him by the hair, picks him up and throws him across the room into the wall of pictures, many of them coming off their hooks and falling on top of Harry.
He steps on Harry's neck with his shoe, pinning him to the floor.
Harry can't speak; his jaw is broken.
He looks sad lying there pinned beneath Ray Bones' shoe, wondering how it all went so wrong.
Harry, a crumpled heap, looks up and we see his bloody pummeled face as Ray Bones quickly crosses the room.
Bones pulls a from his coat pocket and aims it down at Harry's face.
Bones aims the gun at him.
Ray Bones looks over as Ronnie Wingate strolls into the office.
Harry actually looks glad to see him.
Ronnie opens his jacket so that Ray Bones can see the .Ronnie's got tucked into his belt.
Bones looks at the gun, looks up at Ronnie standing there, hands on his hips, holding his jacket open.
Bones raises his own gun.
Harry looks pleadingly at Ray Bones.
Harry rolls over on to his side.
Beer in hand, Chili sits in a chaise longue by the pool.
Karen watches him a moment from the doorway.
He looks over.
She comes over, sits down.
Chili looks at Karen a moment.
Feeling him staring, she keeps her eyes on the sunset, and tries to change the subject.
He looks at her, puts his drink down.
And he leans over and kisses her.
Karen and Chili lie in bed together.
She looks at him.
She leans over and kisses him.
Chili and Karen both jerk upright.
As Doris leads Karen and Chili towards the triage area.
Karen and Chili exchange a look as they follow her into.
Doris smiles as two UNIFORMED COPS walk past.
Where Harry lies in bed in a pain-killer stupor.
Both of his eyes are black.
His face is swollen and purple.
They all look over as a RESIDENT walks over trailed by several .
Doris winks at one of the young med students as the resident then turns to her, Karen, Chili.
They step back as the Resident pulls the curtain shut, blocking their view of Harry.
Standing beside some giant mutant maggot or something.
Bo Catlett looks at the Bear, then smiles at Farrah.
Bear watches uncomfortably as Farrah sits down with Bo.
Bo looks up at the Bear.
And he winks at Farrah.
Bo Catlett keeps his mouth close to her ear.
He opens the door for her.
Chili's minivan is parked out front.
As the valet drives off with Chili's minivan, a CAB pulls up and Harry - his hands bandaged, his neck in a massive brace - gets out.
Harry waves them off points to himself as he mumbles through his wired jaw.
He then pushes past them and limps up the steps.
All eyes are on Harry as they're led to a table.
The hubub on the patio quiets as the three of them then walk up to the Maitre D'.
Karen sits down, looks about at all of the gawking diners.
Martin sits down and fans the air in front of him.
Harry grunts.
Martin smiles at his own joke, looks up as the Maitre D' approaches.
Harry turns back to Chili and Karen.
Harry looks up.
Harry mumbles through his wired jaw.
Martin turns to him.
Harry winces in pain.
Harry looks to Karen for help here.
Harry's already looking at him.
Chili lies asleep beside her.
She nudges him.
Karen sits up in bed.
Chili sits up on his elbows, listens.
She struggles, but Bo hangs on to her.
She listens a moment.
Bo Catlett goes over to the stereo.
Karen stands there with her arms folded across her chest.
The two men stare at each as we hear.
Chili opens Leo's bag so that Bo can see the money.
Chili sets the duffle bag down in front of him.
The Bear won't look at him.
Chili looks at the Bear.
The Bear kicks him, sending Chili back into the living room at Karen's feet.
The Bear knees Chili in the gut, then shoves him out on to the balcony.
Bo Catlett follows them out there.
And the Bear hits Chili again.
Bo moves up to the Bear.
But the Bear can't stop, keeps hitting Chili.
The Bear looks at Bo Catlett.
The three of them looking down.
As Chili and Karen pull to the curb out front.
She looks at him.
Chili gets to his feet.
She looks off, shakes her head.
Bones motions with the gun and he turns to face the painting over the sofa.
Bones comes over and lifts his wallet from his back pocket.
His face still to the wall, Chili shoves his hands in and pulls the side pockets out.
His hand comes out of the suitcoat with the LOCKER KEY.
Bones turns away.
Chili sits down on the sofa again; he can't believe how easy this is gonna be.
Chili sits back to smoke his cigarette, lets it happen.
Chili shrugs.
Bones eyes the key a moment, then.
The POV moves from the Jack-O-Lantern down to another window and peers inside.
The boyfriend grabs the sister and kisses her.
Into the bedroom comes the SISTER, 18, very pretty.
Alan, 18, he wears a Halloween mask and a costume.
She GIGGLES as the BOYFRIEND jumps into the room.
The boyfriend rips off his mask.
They kiss again, this time with more passion.
He is a handsome young man underneath.
She responds to him.
The POV swing away from the window and begins to restlessly pace back and forth, agitated, disturbed.
The POV springs back from the window and stalks quickly down the side of the house, past the Jack-O-Lantern, around to a door.
Quickly the door is opened and the POV moves inside.
The POV glides silently through the house into the kitchen, up to a drawer.
The drawer is opened.
A large BUTCHER KNIFE is withdrawn.
Then the POV swings around and moves to the kitchen door.
We look down a hallway to the front door.
The boyfriend steps out of the bedroom door, buttoning his shirt.
Slowly the POV moves into the room.
Suddenly we move down to the discarded Halloween mask on the floor.
The POV bends down and picks it up.
Then suddenly the POV is covered by the mask and we see through the eye-holes.
The POV moves slowly down the hall to the bedroom door and peers around inside.
The sister sits at her night-table brushing her hair.
She is still completely nude.
The POV moves up behind the sister.
Sensing a presence, she spins around and stares at the POV, covering her breasts quickly.
Suddenly the POV lunges forward.
The sister continues to stare incredulously.
There is a RAPID BLUR as the POV drives the butcher knife into the sister's chest and out again almost before we've seen it.
Then in a WILD PAROXYSM the butcher knife blurs continuously in and out of frame, slashing the sister mercilessly.
She begins to SCREAM, trying to fend off the blows with her hands, then suddenly falls out of frame to the floor.
The POV moves back away from the sister's lifeless body, spins around and careens out of the bedroom.
At top speed the POV races through the darkened house, to the front door, out the door, down the steps and rapidly up the street.
The CAMERA careens along in frenzied flight, up the sidewalk, up a small side alley, down someone's back yard, then to a sudden, abrupt halt in front of MOTHER and FATHER just coming out of a neighbor's house.
The father's hand reaches up and rips off the Halloween mask, revealing MICHAEL, 6, underneath, a bright-eyed boy with a calm, quiet smile on his face.
CAMERA PULLS BACK, revealing the blood-stained butcher knife in his hand, then further back.
Mother and Father stare at the POV, at first in puzzlement, then slow, growing horror.
CRANING UP past his parents standing there, up from the neighbor's house to a HIGH SHOT of the neighborhood as the sounds of POLICE SIRENS rise in the distance.
Two headlights appear in the darkness, backlighting the rain that pours down on a lonely strip of highway.
A station wagon HISSES along the wet road surface.
Next to her in the passenger seat is SAM LOOMIS, a clinical psychiatrist.
MARION, 30, drives.
He is a tough-looking man in his forties who flips through pages in a manila folder.
Loomis glances at Marion as she lights a cigarette.
She shoves the matches into the pack and tosses it on the dashboard.
Loomis stares at the cigarette pack.
They look up ahead.
Standing by the side of the road is a MALE PATIENT, a wild- looking man in his sixties dressed in a white gown, who stares at the station wagon.
Marion slows the station wagon and pulls off to the side of the road.
Loomis jumps out.
Through the windshield we see Loomis rush over to the patient, stand and talk for a moment, then hurry back.
CAMERA MOVES with Laurie as she walks down the residential street.
She carries a large bundle of school books in her arms.
Across a backyard TOMMY DOYLE, an eight-year-old boy with tossled brown hair and bright blue eyes comes running with his books.
He catches up with her and they walk along down the street.
They walk up to the front of the old, two-story Myers house set back from the street.
Laurie holds up a key.
Laurie walks through the front gate and starts up toward the porch.
Laurie strolls up to the front porch.
She bends down, lifts the welcome mat and places the key under it.
Through a frost window, we see Laurie bending over the welcome mat.
Suddenly a DARK SHAPE, THE OUTLINE OF A MAN, leans forward, watching her.
As she walks back to Tommy at the street THE SHAPE MOVES TO WATCH THEM, then fades back into the interior of the house.
Laurie and Tommy continue walking down the street.
Tommy breaks stride and runs across the street.
We see Laurie walking off down the street in the distance.
CLOSE TO CAMERA the DARK SHAPE MOVES INTO FRAME, watching Laurie disappear around the corner.
Loomis reaches a car and unlocks it.
Loomis gets in the car.
Loomis starts up the car and pull away from the sanitarium.
Wynn watches him go, then hurries back into the building.
Laurie sits at the back of a classroom of HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS.
CAMERA MOVES IN on her as a TEACHER drones away at the front of the room.
CAMERA MOVES to a CLOSE-UP of Laurie.
She barely listens to the teacher as she doodles in her notebook in front of her.
Laurie lets her gaze move to a window.
She stares dreamily outside.
From the window she can see the street, and a station wagon parked along the sidewalk.
Behind the station wagon stands THE SHAPE OF A MAN.
She turns away from the window and begins to doodle again.
This springs her around from the window.
Laurie sneaks a glance back to the window.
The shape and the station wagon are GONE.
She turns back from the window and back to her notebook.
The other boys form a circle around Tommy and taunt him.
We see a car parked in front of a small, closed-down gas station/diner by the side of the highway.
CAMERA SLOWLY TRACKS over to a phone booth.
Loomis is inside on the telephone.
ANNIE comes out of the side doors of the high school and calls after Laurie and Lynda.
The girls stop and wait for Annie.
Laurie suddenly stops and looks back toward the school.
Laurie glances down the street.
The station wagon slowly moves up the street toward them.
The shape isn't visible behind the windshield.
Laurie stares at the station wagon as it moves past.
She looks directly at the shape inside.
There is a quick glimpse of him, a strange pale face staring back.
The shape is close to CAMERA, out of focus.
The shape stares at Laurie looking back at him, then tromps on the accelerator.
The wagon whizzes past them.
Out the window we see the three girls on the sidewalk.
Up the street the wagon suddenly stops.
It sits there, waiting.
For a moment the station wagon just sits there.
Then it takes off down the street and disappears around a corner.
The girls start walking again.
The three girls stop in front of Lynda's house, a modest suburban home on a quiet, tree-lined street.
Lynda strolls up to her house.
Annie and Laurie start down the street.
Up the sidewalk is a series of bushes lining the street.
CAMERA MOVES IN to a CLOSE SHOT of Laurie's face.
She stares ahead along the sidewalk.
There, partially hidden in the shadows of a bush, IS THE SHAPE OF A MAN, watching them.
He is barely visible, almost blending in with the dark foliage.
The shape is gone.
Just bushes.
Annie walks right over to the bushes and kicks them hard.
Laurie just stands on the sidewalk several feet from the bushes.
Slowly Laurie walks over and stares at the bush.
Laurie glances back at the bushes behind them.
The two girls stop in front of Annie's house, another small suburban home.
Annie walks up to her door.
For a moment Laurie looks around cautiously before searching down the sidewalk again.
CAMERA TRACKING WITH HER.
Again she turns around and glances back down the street.
Suddenly, Laurie walks RIGHT INTO A MAN standing on the sidewalk in front of her.
She SCREAMS and drops her books.
It is LEE BRACKETT, Annie's father.
He is a tall man in a county sheriff's uniform.
Laurie bundles her books and hurries up the street.
Brackett walks down the sidewalk to his house.
Laurie walks up on the front porch of her house.
She pauses a moment and glances down the street.
Several CHILDREN in costumes are going door to door collecting their treats.
She slams the receiver down.
Almost immediately, the phone RINGS again.
Laurie looks at it.
She picks it up.
CAMERA BEGINS on the trees that line the residential street, twisting and writhing in the dusk wind.
She carries a totebag with schoolbooks and knitting needles stuck inside, and a large pumpkin.
The sun is a pale glow behind the trees.
SLOWLY CAMERA BOOMS DOWN to Laurie waiting outside her house by the street.
Laurie turns her gaze down the street.
More CHILDREN in costumes walk from house to house, some with MOTHERS and SISTERS, trick or treating.
The wind blows their costumes, billowing them outward.
She watches the trick or treater as a car swings around the corner and pull up in front of her.
WIDE SHOT of an old graveyard on a windy hillside.
CAMERA BOOMS DOWN as a car pull up on the small road in f.g.
Sam Loomis gets out, along with TAYLOR, the graveyard owner.
He glances at a small notepad.
The two men begin walking along the graveyard, winding around headstones and flowers.
Taylor stops cold.
He points to a plot right in front of them.
Taylor gives Loomis a quizzical look.
Loomis stares.
THE HEADSTONE IS MISSING, uprooted from the ground.
Loomis shakes his head and looks across the graveyard.
Taylor checks his notebook, then counts the rows and plots.
Behind them, through the rear-view mirror, we see LOOMIS' STATION WAGON pull out of an alley and follow along.
Annie points up ahead and quickly hides the joint.
Annie's car drives through the main square of Haddonfield.
Following behind is the station wagon.
Two police cars are parked in the street in front of Nichols Hardware Store.
Annie's car stops at the police cars.
They quickly roll down the windows and begin wildly clearing out the marijuana smoke.
Lee Brackett strolls out to the car and leans down to the window.
Annie's car pulls away.
Behind Brackett, Sam Loomis walks up the street.
Brackett smiles as Loomis walks up behind him.
As they talk CAMERA SLOWLY MOVES AROUND THEM to a view of the street.
Loomis' station wagon moves by behind them.
Through the blowing trees we see the full moon rising in the night sky.
Annie's car moves down a quiet little residential street and pull up in front of a two-story house set back from the street: the Doyle house.
We are in the front seat of the station wagon.
Through the windshield we see Laurie get out of Annie's car, say goodbye and walk up to the Doyle house.
Then Annie's car makes a wide U-turn in the street and starts down the other direction.
The station wagon pulls forward and follows her.
Annie stops three houses down the street and pulls into a garage.
The station wagon stops several feet away.
The shape gets out of the station wagon, close to CAMERA so we can't see him.
He glances down the street.
Gusts of wind blow the costumes of children going from house to house.
The shape moves.
CAMERA tracks behind him as he walks toward the Wallace house.
The shape stops in front.
We see Annie come out of the garage and walk to another two- story frame house: the Wallaces'.
The front door opens.
Through the front room windows we can see Annie talking to the WALLACES as they put on their coats.
CAMERA and shape quickly MOVE BEHIND A TREE to hide from sight.
The Wallaces step out of their house and walk to the garage.
The shape steps out from behind the tree and stares at the house.
Annie and LINDSEY WALLACE, a pretty little nine-year-old, stands in the doorway framed by the hall light.
Annie closes the door.
A police car pulls up in front of the Myers house.
The are SOUNDS of wind and CHIRPING CRICKETS.
Brackett and Loomis get out and stand by the front gate.
Inside, we see Annie turn on the TV.
She goes to the mirror on the wall and begins to brush her hair.
Looking down the side of the house we see Loomis and Brackett walk up to the front porch.
A broken, rusted RAIN GUTTER CLANGS back and fourth against the house in the wind.
The front door slowly opens.
Brackett and Loomis stand in the doorway.
It is totally dark in the house.
Brackett's flashlight comes on, illuminating the two men.
As they move through the house CAMERA TRACKS with them.
Suddenly Brackett stops.
He trains his flashlight on a SMALL OBJECT in the corner of the room.
For a moment Bracket doesn't speak.
Then he steps closer to the object.
Brackett bends down to it.
Both men look down off screen at the animal.
He stands back up and looks at Loomis.
Brackett gets a disgusted expression and steps away.
Brackett looks back at the dead animal.
They glance at each other.
Loomis walks over to the spot where the sister was sitting.
Loomis turns and glances at the window.
Brackett just looks at him a moment.
Brackett turns and walks out of the bedroom.
He slowly walks toward it.
For a moment Loomis stares at the rain gutter in the broken window.
CAMERA SLOWLY TRACKS IN toward the window.
Loomis stops by the window.
Brackett draws his gun and the two men step inside.
Laurie sits with Tommy Doyle on the couch reading him a story.
Tommy has his Halloween costume on and a big bag of candy on the floor.
Tommy pulls out a stack of comic books from underneath the couch.
Laurie glances through the stack of comic books.
Laurie goes to answer it.
She picks up the receiver in the den.
LESTER, a large, ferocious-looking German shepherd, trots happily into the kitchen, spies Annie and walks over to her.
Lester GROWLS at her menacingly.
There is a dining room and living room with a big bay window that looks out into the street.
It is a large home with a staircase that leads to the bedrooms upstairs.
Tommy rushes out of the den.
Tommy dashes up to the front window and looks out.
We see the man as he passes under a streetlight on his way.
Tommy runs to the window in the den and points.
Laurie walks over with the phone and looks.
The shape moves to see inside a window of the Wallaces house.
Annie stands by the kitchen stove making popcorn.
The shape stands close to CAMERA watching Annie make popcorn.
Annie starts to pour the butter over the popcorn but instead pours it on herself.
Annie hangs up.
She quickly takes off her blouse and blue jeans.
She stands in the kitchen with only her panties on.
She pulls a box of cornstarch out of the closet and sprinkles it out on the stains of butter.
The shape moves closer to the kitchen window and knocks over a potted plant.
It CRASHES noisily against the side of the house.
Annie is startled by the crash.
A hanging plant swings in the wind.
She looks outside the window.
The shape leans up close to the kitchen window, looking inside.
From the darkness of the back yard Lester springs forward into CAMERA, SNARLING and BARKING viciously.
The shape darts away from the kitchen window, the dog SNAPPING right after him.
Annie listens to the GROWLING of the dog.
She turns to Lindsey in the living room.
We see the shape's legs a few feet from the house.
Next to him are LESTER'S LEGS, kicking and struggling a few feet above the ground.
Off screen, the shape is strangling the dog in mid-air.
Finally the dog's legs stop moving and DANGLE LIFELESSLY.
Laurie and Tommy are sitting on the couch watching the Horror- thon on TV.
Laurie holds out her hand.
Tommy takes it and together they walk into the kitchen.
Annie walks through the passageway to the laundry room.
She is wearing a nylon robe and carrying her clothes to be washed.
The wind blows the robe open.
The door CREAKS open.
Annie walks into the dark laundry room.
In the light from the main house, Annie sees the light switch.
Almost immediately the wind BLOWS THE DOOR SHUT! Annie stands motionless for a moment, then begins looking for the light switch.
Annie turns toward the slightly open door.
Behind the door we see the outline of the SHAPE STANDING THERE.
The wind blows the door open a little wider.
She glances outside the door.
She steps back inside and crosses to the washing machine.
She opens the top and dumps her clothes inside.
Suddenly a big gust of wind comes through the opened window above her.
The door SLAMS SHUT! Annie hurries to the door and tries to open it.
She tries to pull the door open.
LINDSEY WALLACE, 8 years old with a pretty face, watches the Horror Marathon at top volume on TV.
Lindsey still sits in front of the TV.
She lets the phone ring away.
Annie turns and glances at the window above the washing machine.
BEHIND HER, in the open window above the washing machine, we see the SHAPE looking in.
THE SHAPE IS GONE.
She quickly crosses to the washing machine, climbs up on top of it and starts out the window.
Half way through she GETS STUCK.
Finally she gets up and walks to the phone, her eyes pivoted on the TV.
She picks up the receiver.
She tries to squirm her way back in but it's hopeless.
Lindsey pulls on Annie's legs and she slides from the window onto the dryer.
As Annie and Lindsey walk back into the house, the phone rings.
From the house Annie hears the phone ring.
Lindsey races across the room and picks it up.
Lindsey sets down the receiver and walks out of the kitchen.
Annie gives Lindsey a dirty look and picks it up.
Suddenly behind Annie THE SHAPE WALKS THROUGH THE HALLWAY BETWEEN THE LIVING ROOM AND THE KITCHEN.
She walks into the living room.
Annie calculates a moment.
Lindsey is back watching the TV Horror-thon.
Lindsey's eyes light up.
Annie and Lindsey come out of the Wallace house.
Lindsey carries a bowl of popcorn.
Annie has a coat over the negligee.
They walk down the street to the Doyles.
The wind blows strong and whips the negligee around Annie's legs.
As the girls make their way down the street.
The SHAPE steps into the glow of the streetlight and watches them.
Tommy runs to answer it.
He opens the door.
Annie and Lindsey stand there.
Lindsey sees the TV and runs into the living room.
She takes off her coat; sits in front of the TV and eats her popcorn.
She glances at Annie's coat.
Laurie glances at Lindsey.
Before Laurie can say anything else, Annie rushes out the door.
Laurie closes the door and looks in at Tommy and Lindsey engrossed in the Horror-thon.
Annie hurries across the back yard and steps into the garage.
She walks to her car.
She tries the door.
Quickly she turns and walks out of the garage.
Annie wanders through the empty house looking for her purse.
She finds it in the front room, takes out her brush and lipstick and stands in front of the mirror primping.
She glances up at her image in the mirror.
Tommy hides, preparing to jump out and scare Lindsey.
Lindsey gets up from the couch to search for Tommy.
Lindsey turns around and looks for Tommy.
For a moment, he glances out the window.
The figure of a MAN carries what seems to be a BODY across the Wallace's back yard.
Tommy SCREAMS and jumps out from the curtain, scaring the hell out of Lindsey, who also SCREAMS and begins crying.
Laurie rushes in from the kitchen finding the children in tears.
Tommy points out the window.
Laurie bends down to comfort her.
Tommy turns away from Laurie and Lindsey and walks over to the couch in front of the TV set.
Almost instantly, Lindsey stops crying and follows him.
Lindsey sits up next to Tommy and hugs him.
Laurie shakes her head and walks back into the kitchen.
The old Myers house looks ominous and foreboding silhouetted against the dark, whishing trees.
CAMERA TRACKS behind the hedge where Loomis sits waiting.
Suddenly, there are noises from the street.
Three boys, Keith, Richie and Lonnie (from the playground) creep up to the edge of the sidewalk in front of the old house.
They stare fearfully at the dark, tomb-like structure.
Loomis parts the hedge in front of him and stares.
For a moment Lonnie hesitates, then slowly moves through the front gate up toward the porch.
He watches the young boy walk toward the house, unsure whether he should interfere or just watch.
Loomis makes it to the front porch and tentatively steps up to the door.
He glances back to his friends in the street.
The boy turns to open the door.
Then Loomis' POV moves back to Lonnie at the front door.
He's scared out of his mind.
Lonnie spins around and stares in horror at the talking hedge.
Moving like the wind, Lonnie barrels off the porch and races back to his friends.
The boys hurtle off down the street in utter terror.
Loomis quietly stands up behind the hedge.
He watches them race away, smiling to himself.
Suddenly, TWO HANDS enter frame and grab Loomis' shoulders.
Loomis jumps and spins around.
Standing there is Brackett.
Brackett turns and walks back to the street.
A car pulls up in front of the house and parks.
Its lights flick off.
The sounds of LAUGHTER come from inside.
BOB SIMMS, a good-looking 17-year-old, POPS open a can of beer.
Next to him Lynda guzzles hers.
The lights are all out.
Bob opens the door and together they fall out onto the ground.
The can of beer falls over onto the front seat.
They embrace.
Bob grabs Lynda and she starts giggling.
Bob picks Lynda up and carries her up to the front door.
Lynda squirms in Bob's arms.
As he sets her down her foot accidentally hits the front door and it swings open.
Lynda and Bob both stop.
Bob and Lynda enter the house.
The living room is empty.
The lights are off.
Lynda and Bob enter the house and begin turning on the lights.
Bob walks over to Lynda.
They embrace.
They kiss.
Bob pulls Lynda over to the couch and turns out the light.
A SHADOW COMES OVER THEM.
They continue kissing, unaware of the shape of a man on the stairway WATCHING.
The house is totally black inside.
Then an orange light floats around the room.
As it gets closer, we see that Laurie is carrying a Jack-O-Lantern, with a candle illuminating from the center of the pumpkin.
Behind Laurie is Lyndsey and Tommy making scary noises.
The procession continues through the house.
The procession continues to the front window.
Laurie places the Jack-O-Lantern on the window sill.
She looks down the street toward the Wallaces.
Laurie sees Bob's car parked in front of the house.
Laurie sits down on the couch and sighs.
Lindsey and Tommy cuddle up with her, one on either side.
Laurie gets up to answer it.
Lynda hangs up the phone and grins.
Bob grins.
Lynda grabs Bob's hand and stands up.
Lynda pulls Bob up from the couch and they walk quickly up the stairs.
She walks to the window and glances out.
Laurie stands by the telephone.
Laurie shrugs, turns away from the window and walks back to Tommy and Lindsey sitting on the couch.
The only light is a candle illuminating the sheets as they move slowly up and down and from side to side.
Empty beer cans leave a trail from the door to the bed.
The lovemaking suddenly stops.
Her hair is a mess and she is frustrated.
Bob grabs Lynda and pushes her down on the bed.
CAMERA MOVES BACK from the bed as their lovemaking continues, back through the bedroom doorway.
Standing there in the darkness is THE SHAPE watching them.
Finally, Bob and Lynda climax.
Bob rolls off Lynda.
She lights a cigarette and hands it to Bob, then lights one for herself.
He leaves.
She smiles to herself.
Lynda leans back onto the pillows.
Bob comes through the swinging doors.
He opens refrigerator and takes out two beers.
Bob gathers the food and beers into his arms.
He looks around the kitchen.
In another cupboard he finds a can of peanuts.
He steps to the door and looks outside.
The yard is empty.
Just the wind blowing the trees.
He shuts the doors.
Bob freezes, staring at the two doors.
He walks to one of the doors and opens it.
He turns from the door.
He steps to the other door and opens it.
RIGHT BEHIND THE DOOR STANDS THE SHAPE wearing the rubber mask.
He steps out and grabs Bob around the neck with an instantaneous lunge.
Bob tries to jump away, but the shape has a firm hold on his neck.
Bob COUGHS and GAGS from the pressure.
Then the shape LIFTS BOB UP OFF THE FLOOR.
Bob's feet leave the floor.
He makes a guttural sound deep in his throat as the shape's hand closes tightly around his windpipe.
Still holding him up with one hand, the shape SLAMS Bob against the wall, holding him several feet off the floor.
Bob struggles to get free.
The shape lifts his other hand.
It holds the butcher knife.
The shape drives the knife deeply into Bob's chest with a SLAMMING THUD, the other end of the knife stuck through the wall.
Then the shape steps away.
Bob hangs there, impaled on the wall, eyes still open in horror, dead.
Lynda lounges in the bed smoking another cigarette.
She hears Bob enter the room but doesn't look up.
The SHAPE STANDS in the doorway.
Lynda looks at the ghost.
The ghost doesn't answer.
She slides the sheets down from her body.
Lynda laughs at her own joke, then stops when she sees the ghost is motionless.
Lynda turns around and looks.
The ghost just stands there.
Lynda gets out of bed.
She is nude and looks beautiful and sensuous in the candlelight.
She walks over to the phone.
the ghost stands in the doorway.
She starts to dial the phone.
In the b.g.The ghost starts walking toward her.
The shape moves forward.
Laurie is sitting on the couch knitting.
Laurie crosses to answer the phone.
Lynda holds the phone to her ear.
The ghost walks up slowly behind her.
Laurie answers the telephone.
He raises his hands to grab her.
Lynda hears Laurie's hello as THE GHOST GRABS THE PHONE.
He takes the telephone cord and wraps it around her neck.
She squirms and writhes.
He wraps the cord around her neck.
Laurie hears SQUEALS, and rustling sounds across the phone.
Laurie continues to hear weird SOUNDS.
He pulls tight.
Lynda tries to fight off the ghost.
Lynda gasps and tries to scream.
The man pulls the cord tighter.
She opens her mouth, trying to get air, then slowly slumps forward and remains motionless.
Lynda reaches up and pulls on the sheet.
It slides off the man, to reveal the grotesque Halloween mask.
The shape picks up the receiver and puts it to his ear.
Suddenly the phone goes dead.
Laurie stares at the receiver, then hangs up.
She crosses to the window and looks out toward the Wallace house.
The street is quiet, dark and windy.
Bob's car is parked in front of the Wallace house.
She stares at the house, puzzled.
Laurie moves from the window back to the telephone and dials Annie's number.
Laurie finally hangs up the phone.
She stands for a moment considering it, then turns and walks upstairs.
The kids are asleep.
Tommy and Lindsey are sound asleep on the bed.
She looks at them a moment, then closes the door behind her.
Loomis sits in silence behind the hedge watching the Myers house.
For a moment he glances back at the Myers house, then starts down the quiet residential street.
He turns away from the street.
It is empty except for a station wagon parked several blocks away.
Then a thought strikes him.
He looks again.
Frustrated, he gets up and walks to the street.
Slowly Loomis starts walking down the street toward the station wagon.
TRACKING SHOT with Loomis as he walks up the street.
The station wagon moves closer.
He recognizes it and races forward.
CAMERA TRACKS IN to the station wagon, right up to the STATE EMBLEM emblazoned on the side.
Loomis stands by his car glancing up and down the empty street.
Finally he makes up his mind and starts moving down the street, almost running, looking back and fourth at the rows of houses on either side for something out of place.
Laurie comes back downstairs.
She takes a key out of her purse and again steps to the window.
She steps to the front door.
She puts the key to the Doyle house in her pocket.
Laurie locks the Doyle house and walks away out into the street.
MOVING SHOT toward the Wallace house, dark and ominous.
The wind whips her clothes and hair.
She moves down the street, shivering in the chill wind.
Bob's car sits there on the street.
She picks up her speed, now up the sidewalk.
The house looms closer and closer.
CAMERA MOVES UP to the front of the Wallace house.
Laurie walks up to the front porch.
She KNOCKS on the door and RINGS the doorbell.
She stands there a moment, listening, as if to hear some sound of life from the inside.
She waits.
Laurie thinks a moment, then looks to the street.
She steps off the porch and walks around to the side of the house, CAMERA TRACKING WITH HER.
She turns and walks through the breezeway between the house and garage around to the back door.
Laurie pulls open the door and steps into the house.
Laurie stands there a moment staring into the blackness.
The kitchen is dark.
Laurie searches for the wall light.
She looks again into the darkness.
Another SOUND from upstairs, a DRAGGING across the floor.
The dragging sound STOPS ABRUPTLY.
Laurie moves to the head of the staircase.
Slowly Laurie starts up the staircase.
SLOWLY TRACKING up the staircase.
as she slowly moves up the stairs.
She reaches the top and stops.
At the end of the hall is the bedroom door.
From around the edges of the door is the faintest ORANGE.
She moves for the door, CAMERA TRACKING WITH HER.
CAMERA SLOWLY TRACKS through the darkened bedroom of the Wallace house.
She reaches the door.
The door swings open.
A Jack-O-Lantern casts and eerie glow around the room.
There is SOMEONE lying on the bed but from this position Laurie can't see.
She moves forward toward the bed.
There on the bed is ANNIE! Her face is a chalky white and there is a huge red gash across her throat.
She stares at the bed and then SCREAMS at the top of her lungs.
Laurie jumps back to the door.
Strung up to the light fixture on the ceiling, dangling there in the middle of the room, is Bob, eyes open and staring.
Laurie shrinks back into a dark corner.
SUDDENLY A DOOR NEXT TO HER SLOWLY OPENS.
There is LYNDA standing there, propped up by a chair, staring at her with glazed, dead eyes.
Laurie backs out of the bedroom.
Her mouth is open in speechless horror.
She can only stare in horror at the sight of her dead friend.
It is almost as if our eyes have suddenly begun to adjust to the darkness and we see THE OUTLINE OF A MAN standing right behind her.
The outline becomes more and more clear.
Laurie suddenly moves away from the corner.
The shape lunges out at her.
He lunges again with the knife.
He lunges at her suddenly with the knife.
He stands there holding up the piece of material, then raises the butcher knife and moves for her.
The hand grasps a piece of Laurie's blouse and RIPS it.
THE KNIFE SLICES ACROSS HER ARM, ripping her flesh.
She SCREAMS and spins around.
Laurie bumps back into the railing.
She leaps backward to avoid the blade and slips over the edge of the railing.
CAMERA POUNCES DOWN from the second floor and SLAMS into the floor.
CAMERA MOVES WITH HER as she backs away, SCREAMING at the top of her lungs.
She hits the floor and rolls over, holding her leg painfully.
It is the shape, wearing the mask, the butcher knife in his hand, gleaming.
The shape moves to the top of the staircase and STARTS down toward her.
Then she looks up at the staircase.
She pulls herself up off the floor and hobbles into the living room.
The shape races down the stairs.
She moves for the kitchen.
She crawls to the kitchen, rolls inside an SLAMS the kitchen door behind her.
In a flash, she leaps up and CLICKS the lock.
She sees the kitchen window over the sink.
Laurie slowly climbs to her feet and limps toward the back door.
Her hand tries the door.
Desperately she tries the door, glancing behind her.
There is a POUNDING on the door from the other side.
Suddenly, the kitchen door EXPLODES, the middle of it BREAKING.
The shape reaches through, groping for the lock.
The shape's hand reaches for the lock.
The shape's hand grabs the lock and CLICKS it open.
The shape pushes the door open and leaps into the kitchen.
With a heave she opens it half-way.
She can only get it three-fourths open.
She drags herself roughly out the window.
Laurie picks herself up from the ground and runs as fast as she can, limping across the backyard, CAMERA MOVING WITH HER.
She looks behind her.
She trips on the fallen lamp and fall to the floor.
She passes the driveway and scurries into the neighbor's backyard, up to the back door of the house.
She POUNDS furiously on the door.
Laurie continues to POUND on the door.
The back porch light comes on.
Through the glass in the back door we see an OLD WOMAN dressed in a nightgown approach.
The old woman stares at her suspiciously for a moment, then turns from the door and walks away.
Her hand reaches out and touches it.
Tommy turns and runs upstairs CRYING.
Laurie moves from the door to the telephone.
She picks it up, dials a number and waits.
She puts down the phone and stands very still.
Slowly Laurie moves around the couch.
Slowly Laurie sinks down to her knees by the couch.
Her hand brushes against the knitting needles protruding from her totebag.
She reacts to the feel of the knitting needles and pulls one out.
She begins crying softly, her eyes wide with fear.
SUDDENLY THE SHAPE LEAPS UP FROM BEHIND THE COUCH! He springs at her, plunging the butcher knife.
The blade of the butcher knife THUMPS into the couch.
Laurie suddenly jumps backward, raising her arm instictively.
Instinctively Laurie raises the knitting needle and drives it home, right into the shape's neck! The shape springs backward, clawing at the needle, rolling his head back and forth.
Then suddenly he freezes, hands outstretched, motionless, and falls into a heap on the floor.
Laurie sits there.
The shape doesn't move.
She stares at it.
CAMERA MOVES WITH LOOMIS as he moves along the street.
Suddenly two headlights hit him and a police car swerves to a stop next to him.
Standing there is THE SHAPE, the butcher knife raised.
Both children SCREAM.
Laurie shoves them into the bathroom and pulls the door shut, leaving herself outside in the bedroom.
There is a CLICK as the bathroom door is locked.
Laurie leaps away from the door and circles around the bed.
The shape keeps coming.
The shape moves for her, slowly now, but relentless, the knife glistening.
Laurie dashes to a clothes closet and ducks inside.
Laurie pulls the sliding doors closed and crawls back into the small, dark interior of the closet.
Suddenly the doors begin to buckle as the shape pounds on them.
The door buckles inward as the shape SMASHES against it.
She reaches up and grabs a wire hanger from the top of the closet.
She twists the top of the hanger, unwinding the wire.
The door BREAKS IN.
The shape steps inside, pushing aside the clothes.
She unhooks the hanger and bends it out straight.
The shape leans in, peering down at Laurie in the corner, raising the knife.
Holding the hanger with both hands she thrusts it forward with all her might.
The wire hanger flashes into the shape's right eye.
He leaps back in pain, dropping the butcher knife, grabbing his eye with both hands.
She grasps the butcher knife with both hands and jabs it upward.
The butcher knife plunges into the shape's mid-section, right down to the hilt.
She just sits there in the corner of the closet.
The shape stumbles backward out of the closet.
There is a THUMP from the bedroom, then silence.
Slowly Laurie crawls around and peeks out of the closet doors.
The shape lies on the floor by the bed, the butcher knife protruding from his stomach.
Laurie emerges from the closet and carefully crosses the bedroom, avoiding the shape's body.
She goes to the bathroom door and knocks softly.
There is a silence, then the door opens.
On the other side are Tommy and Lindsey, looking utterly terrified.
Laurie bends down and shields them from the sight of the shape.
She stands up and carefully guides the children across the bedroom to the door and ushers them outside.
She watches for a moment as they walk down the stairs, then slumps down against the door frame in an exhausted heap.
We see through the bedroom door.
In f.g. sits Laurie, slumped against the door frame, staring out at nothing, tears streaming down her face.
In the b.g. lies the shape.
Slowly Laurie begins to pull herself together once again.
Her back is to the shape.
As she starts to stand THE SHAPE SITS UP, the head turning to Laurie.
Tommy and Lindsey run out of the house and down the walk to the sidewalk.
They rush up the street.
As they leave frame we see Loomis on the other side of the street.
He watches the children with a puzzled frown.
He stares at them for a moment, then moves for the Doyle house.
Shrieking with fear, Tommy and Lindsey run up the sidewalk.
Laurie rises into frame, holding herself erect by grasping the door frame.
She gets up to her knees and begins to pull herself up to her feet.
BEHIND HER THE SHAPE RISES UP INTO FRAME, quickly, silently.
Laurie just hangs there on the doorframe.
Laurie begins to cry again, harder and harder.
Loomis looks down at her, then up at the shattered window at the end of the hall.
He walks slowly down to the window and peers out.
He looks down at the spot where Michael should be, but there is nothing there, just a TRAMPLED PATCH IN THE GRASS.
He stares down with growing fear, then looks out from the house.
CAMERA PULLS UP from the Bailey home and travels up through the sky until it is above the falling snow and moving slowly toward a firmament full of stars.
As the camera stops we hear the following heavenly voices talking, and as each voice is heard, one of the stars twinkles brightly.
A small star flies in from left of screen and stops.
It twinkles as Clarence speaks.
The stars fade out from the screen, and a light, indistinguishable blur is seen.
The blur on the screen slowly begins to take form.
We see a group of young boys on top of a snow-covered hill.
Group of boys.
They are preparing to slide down the hill on large shovels.
One of them makes the slide and shoots out onto the ice of a frozen river at the bottom of the hill.
George Bailey at bottom of slide.
As each boy comes down the others applaud.
Series of shots as four or five boys make the slide down the hill and out onto the ice.
On top of hill, preparing to make his slide.
Harry makes his slide very fast.
He passes the marks made by the other boys, and his shovel takes him onto the thin ice at the bend of the river.
The ice breaks, and Harry disappears into the water.
George jumps into the water and grabs Harry.
As he starts to pull him out he yells.
The other boys lie flat on the ice, forming a human chain.
When George reaches the edge with Harry in his arms, they pull them both to safety.
Five or six boys are coming toward camera, arm in arm, whistling.
Their attention is drawn to an elaborate horsedrawn carriage proceeding down the other side of the street.
The carriage driving by.
We catch a glimpse of an elderly man riding in it.
The boys watching the carriage.
The boys continue until they reach Gower's drugstore.
The drugstore is old-fashioned and dignified, with jars of colored water in the windows and little else.
As the kids stop, George comes in and crosses to an old-fashioned cigar lighter on the counter.
He shuts his eyes and makes a wish.
He clicks the lighter and the flame springs up.
George crosses over to the soda fountain, at which Mary Hatch, a small girl, is seated, watching him.
George goes on to get his apron from behind the fountain.
Mr. Gower, the druggist, peering from a window in back room.
We see him take a drink from a bottle.
Violet Bick enters the drugstore and sits on one of the stools at the fountain.
George behind soda fountain.
He is putting on his apron.
She is the same height as Mary and the same age, but she is infinitely older in her approach to people.
George regards the two of them with manly disgust.
They are two kids to him, and a nuisance.
He starts over for the candy counter.
George goes over to the candy counter.
George gives Violet a paper sack containing licorice shoelaces.
Violet gives him the money.
Violet jumps down off her stool and exits.
Mary, watching, sticks out her tongue as she passes.
George puts some chocolate ice cream in a dish.
He pulls a magazine from his pocket and shows it to her.
He leans down to finish scooping out the ice cream, his deaf ear toward her.
She leans over, speaking softly.
Mary, whispering.
She draws back quickly and looks down, terrified at what she has said.
He turns back to the cash register, whistling.
Taking in entrance to prescription room at end of fountain.
Gower comes to the entrance.
He is bleary-eyed, unshaven, chewing an old unlit cigar.
His manner is gruff and mean.
It is evident he has been drinking.
He turns back to the cash register when he notices an open telegram on the shelf.
He is about to toss it aside when he starts to read it.
George puts the telegram down.
A goodness of heart expresses itself in a desire to do something for Gower.
He gives the ice cream to Mary without comment and sidles back toward Gower.
Gower, drunk, is intent on putting some capsules into a box.
George looks curiously at Gower, realizing that he is quite drunk.
Gower fumbles and drops some of the capsules to the floor.
Capsules spilling on floor at their feet.
Gower waves George aside, takes his old wet cigar, shoves it in his mouth and sits in an old Morris chair in the background.
George picks up the capsule box, not knowing what to do or say.
George turns a bottle around from which Gower has taken the powder for the capsules.
George stands still, horrified.
George's fingers fumble.
His eyes go, harassed, to the bottle labeled poison.
George comes out into main room.
With an inspiration, George dashes out the door and down the street.
Mary follows him with her eyes.
He stops.
Potter's carriage is waiting at the entrance.
Suddenly he runs up the stairs.
The offices are ancient and a bit on the rickety side.
The office vibrates with an aura of crisis as George enters and proceeds directly toward his father's office.
There is a counter with a grill, something like a bank.
With him at the door, also listening, are Cousin Tilly Bailey, a waspish-looking woman, who is the telephone operator, and Cousin Eustace Bailey, the clerk.
As George is about to enter his father's office, uncle Billy grabs him by the arm.
He is a very good-humored man of about fifty, in shirt-sleeves.
During the foregoing, Cousin Tilly has answered the telephone, and now she calls out.
Uncle Billy looking at his hand.
CLOSEUP UNCLE BILLY'S LEFT HAND There are pieces of string tied around two of the fingers, obviously to remind him of things he has to do.
He opens the door of his father's office and enters.
George's father is seated behind his desk, nervously drawing swirls on a pad.
He is a gentle man in his forties, an idealist, stubborn only for other people's rights.
Nearby, in a throne-like wheelchair, behind which stands the goon who furnishes the motive power, sits Henry F. Potter, his squarish derby hat on his head.
He looks tired and worried.
Goon pushes his wheelchair closer to the desk.
The following dialogue is fast and heated, as though the argument had been in process for some time.
George stands irresolute a moment, aware of crisis in the affairs of the Bailey Building and Loan Association, but aware more keenly of his personal crisis.
George cannot listen any longer to such libel about his father.
He comes around in front of the desk.
He pushes George toward the door.
As George passes Potter's wheelchair he pushes the old man's shoulder.
The goon puts out a restraining hand.
George proceeds toward the door, with his father's hand on his shoulder.
George and his father at the door.
Bailey closes the door on George and turns back to Potter.
George stands outside the door with the capsules in his hand.
Gower talking on the telephone.
George stands in the doorway.
He hangs up the phone and turns to George.
He grabs George by the shirt and drags him into the back room.
Gower starts hitting George about the head with his open hands.
Mary is still seated at the soda fountain.
Each time she hears George being slapped, she winces.
George tries to protect himself as best he can.
George falters off, cupping his aching ear with a hand.
Gower looks at the large brown bottle which has not been replaced on the shelf.
George pulls the little box out of his pocket.
Gower savagely rips it away from him, breathing heavily, staring at the boy venomously.
He tears open the package, shakes the powder out of one of the capsules, cautiously tastes it, then abruptly throws the whole mess to the table and turns to look at George again.
The boy is whimpering, hurt, frightened.
Gower steps toward him.
But this time Gower sweeps the boy to him in a hug and, sobbing hoarsely, crushes the boy in his embrace.
George is crying too.
Across the counter stands Joe Hepner, the proprietor of the store he is showing a suitcase.
A young man is looking over an assortment of luggage.
AS CAMERA MOVES UP CLOSER to him, he turns and we get our first glimpse of George as a young man.
Suddenly, in action, as George stands with his arms outstretched in illustration, the picture freezes and becomes a still.
Over this hold-frame shot we hear the voices from Heaven.
The arrested CLOSEUP of George springs to life again.
He brings a large suitcase up from under the counter.
The place is practically the same except that it is now full of school kids having sodas, etc.
A juke box and many little tables have been added.
There are now three kids jerking sodas.
He is behind the counter when George comes in.
Gower's face lights up when he sees George.
Gower is a different man now sober, shaven and good-humored.
George suddenly sees the old cigar lighter on the counter.
He closes his eyes and makes a wish.
As he snaps the lighter the flame springs up.
PAN SHOT as George crosses the street, Uncle Billy, cousin Tilly and Cousin Eustace are leaning out of the second floor window of the Building and Loan offices.
Bert opens the door of the cab and puts George's suitcase inside.
As George is about to enter the cab, he stops suddenly as he sees Violet (now obviously a little sex machine) come toward him.
Her walk and figure would stop anybody.
She reacts to this.
She gives him a sultry look.
As Violet goes by, George and Bert raise their heads above the top of the cab.
Ernie sticks his head out form the driver's seat.
On Violet's back as she goes.
As she crosses the street, an elderly man turns to look at her and is almost hit by a car that pulls up with screeching brakes.
Bert looks at his watch, then takes another look at Violet's retreating figure.
Pop Bailey is seated at the dinner table.
There are SOUNDS of terrific banging and scuffling upstairs.
Mrs. Bailey and Annie, the cook, look up toward the vibrating ceiling.
Annie pounds on the ceiling with a broom.
Pop is smiling and poking his plate.
Mrs. Bailey is calling up the stairs.
She goes up the stairs.
A commotion is heard on the stairs, the boys imitating fanfare MUSIC.
Down they come, holding their mother high between them on their hands.
They bring her into the dining room and deposit her gracefully into Pop's lap.
Pop kisses her.
Mother gives Pop a quick hug, then turns with all the wrath she can muster on the two boys.
Annie crosses the room, holding her broom.
Harry reaches out for her.
As he pushes her through the kitchen door, he slaps her fanny.
She screams.
The noise is cut off by the swinging door.
George and his mother sit down at the table.
Harry, as he sticks his head through the kitchen door.
She follows Harry into the kitchen, leaving Pop and George.
George and his father, eating at the table.
There is a great similarity and a great understanding between them.
Harry and his mother come out of the kitchen, Harry carrying a pie in each hand and balancing one on his head.
CAMERA PANS WITH them as they cross.
George and Pop at the table.
Annie comes in with some dishes.
She exits.
Annie comes in again from the kitchen.
Annie stops serving to hear his answer.
She gives George a look, and goes on out into the kitchen.
Bailey smiles and turns to George.
He stops, realizing that he has hurt his father.
To cover his embarrassment, he looks toward the kitchen door and calls Annie listening through glass in door.
George and his father at the table.
At one end of the room an orchestra is playing.
George wends his way through the dancing couples toward a supper table.
He and Harry are carrying plates and pies.
Several of the boys take the plates from him.
George looks at them, feeling very grown up and out of place.
Sam Wainwright comes in behind Harry, waggles his hands at his ears as he talks.
George swings around, delighted to hear a familiar voice.
Sam is assured and breezy, wearing very collegiate clothes.
George and Sam wiggle their fingers at their ears, saluting each other.
An elderly, fussy school principal comes over to George.
Violet Bick comes into the scene and turns to face George.
She is waving her dance program at him.
Marty Hatch enters scene.
He stops suddenly as he sees Mary, staring at her.
She is standing talking to one of the boys, Freddie, a glass of punch in her hand.
She turns around and for the first time she sees George.
For a second she loses her poise, staring at him.
George, staring at Mary.
Still staring at George, and smiling.
Mary and Freddie.
Marty comes into scene, followed by George.
Mary hands her punch cup to Freddie, and she and George start dancing.
Following George and Mary as they dance.
A WHISTLE is heard offscreen, and the MUSIC stops.
Harry on the orchestra platform, whistle in hand.
As the MUSIC starts and couples begin dancing once more, they look at each other.
They start their Charleston.
We see a SERIES OF SHOTS of various couples doing their routines, some good, some bad.
Freddie needs no more.
Leaning against the railing around the dance floor, looking daggers at George.
Mickey, a young punk who has had one too many, is beside him.
He takes the key from Mickey and turns the switch.
The floor begins to part in the middle, each half sliding under the bleacher seats.
Pandemonium starts.
Dancers begin to scream as they try to get off.
Some are so engrossed in dancing they continue at top speed.
Teachers and elders start to scurry off.
George and Mary dancing.
They mistake the screams for cheers.
George and Mary are so busy dancing they don't notice the floor opening.
As the floor opens, it reveals an attractive, lighted swimming pool.
Spotlights concentrate on them.
The crowd watching George and Mary dancing.
They move backwards until finally they reach the edge of the floor and fall into the pool below.
George and Mary still trying to dance in the water the crowd on the edge cheering them some of the crowd leap into the pool the principal trying to restore order, finally clasps his hands like a diver and leaps in himself.
The night is warm with a bright moon.
George is dressed in jersey sweater and oversize football pants that keep wanting to come down.
Mary is in an old white bath robe.
Each is carrying their wet clothes tied into a bundle that leaves a trail of dripping water.
As they near the camera we hear them singing.
CAMERA MOVES WITH them as they proceed down the street.
He takes the bundle of clothes from Mary.
They stop and look at each other.
Mary stops.
George, to cover his embarrassment, talks quickly on.
In his confusion George steps on the end of the belt of Mary's bath robe, which is trailing along behind her.
She gathers the robe around her.
He picks up the belt and throws it over her arm.
George looks after her; then picks up a rock from the street.
It is a weather-beaten, old-fashioned two-storied house that once was no doubt resplendent.
George hurls the rock at the house.
We see a grumpy old man in shirt sleeves in a rocking chair on the porch.
He looks up as he hears the breaking glass.
As he talks, Mary has been listening intently.
She finally stoops down and picks up a rock, weighting it in her hand.
The old deserted house.
Mary throws her rock, and once more we hear the SOUND of breaking glass.
Mary looks at him provocatively, then turns and shuffles off down the street, singing as she goes.
George hurries after her.
George joins her in the singing as they proceed down the street.
Man on the porch of house, listening to George and Mary.
They have stopped walking and now face one another.
Full moon shining through the trees.
As George finishes talking, he jumps up out of his chair.
As he speaks, the man leaves the porch and goes into his house, slamming the front door.
Mary runs off scene.
George has been once more standing on the belt of her bath robe, so as she goes, her robe comes off.
He drops his bundle of clothes and picks up Mary's robe.
He cannot see her anywhere.
We see Mary's face peering out from the leaves.
George walks toward the bush.
He is about to throw her the robe, when a thought strikes him.
Mary thrashes around in the bushes.
Headlights flash into the scene, and the old Bailey automobile drives in, with Harry at the wheel, and Uncle Billy beside him.
George throws Mary's robe over the bush and gets into the car.
As the car drives off, Mary, now wearing the robe, rises up from the bush and follows the car with her eyes.
There are about twelve directors seated around a long table.
They are the substantial citizens of Bedford Falls: Dr. Campbell, a lawyer, an insurance agent, a real estate salesman, etc.
Uncle Billy and George are seated among the directors.
The Chairman of the Board is Dr. Campbell.
Before each of the directors there are individual reports for them to study.
They have folders and papers before them, on which they have been reporting.
Prominently seated among them is Henry F. Potter, his goon beside his wheelchair.
Dr. Campbell rises from his seat.
George and Uncle Billy start to collect their papers and leave the table.
Everyone looks at him surprised.
George is at the door of the office, holding his coat and papers, ready to leave.
George puts down his coat and comes around to the table, incensed by what Potter is saying about his father.
George leaves the room, followed by the jubilant Uncle Billy.
Potter's face is grim with hatred.
He is interrupted by a babble of talk, as the directors take up the argument.
George, visibly shaken, is busy with his bag, his papers.
Uncle Billy follows him around, chattering.
He is worried about the outcome of the meeting.
Dissolving the Building and Loan will alter his plans.
Ernie is in the doorway.
Dr. Campbell comes running out, all excited.
Cousin Eustace, Cousin Tilly and Uncle Billy cheer wildly.
Dr. Campbell and George shake hands.
The same stars we saw in the opening sequence are once more twinkling as we hear the voices form Heaven.
Characteristic activity; a number of people waiting for the train.
Uncle Billy is seated on a baggage wagon eating peanuts as George paces up and down in front of him.
The WHISTLE of the approaching train is heard.
The train comes to a stop, and Harry is among the first to get off, followed by an attractive girl about the same age as he is.
The group, including Ruth Dakin.
This is the young lady who came off the train with Harry.
In the excitement of greetings she has been momentarily forgotten.
She stands, smiling, waiting.
George and Uncle Billy stare, astounded.
George is thunderstruck.
He takes Ruth's hand.
He kisses Ruth.
CAMERA MOVES WITH them down the platform.
George stops, with a sinking feeling.
Uncle Billy and Ruth continue out of shot.
Harry stops with George.
He runs out of the shot, George watching him.
George slowly moves after Uncle Billy and Ruth.
He is thinking deeply.
CAMERA MOVES WITH George as he comes into the scene.
Ruth detaches herself from the group and offers George some popcorn.
Ruth nods, smiling.
Cousin Eustace is taking a photograph of the family group assembled on the porch.
Flash bulbs go off, and the group breaks up.
The crowd enters the front door of the house, leaving George and Uncle Billy on the porch.
The latter is tipsy.
He feels very high.
He looks around for his hat, which is on his head.
George takes the hat from Uncle Billy's head and hands it to him.
They descend the porch steps, and George turns his uncle around and heads him down the street.
George is standing at the garden gate.
He is obviously disturbed about the latest turn of events.
He takes some travel folders from his pocket, looks at them and throws them away.
His mother comes out of the house and kisses him.
She nods toward the house, where Harry and Ruth, among a crowd of other couples, are dancing to the MUSIC of a phonograph, and can be seen through the front door.
They kiss.
Mrs. Bailey puts George's hat on his head.
George is standing in the middle of the street, hands in his pockets.
He is obviously undecided as to what he wants to do.
As a girl passes, he turns and watches her for a moment.
Violet is locking up for the night.
A couple of men are crowding around her, each one bent on taking her out.
She looks up and sees George standing there.
CAMERA PANS WITH Violet as she crosses the street to George.
Violet takes her beauty shop seriously and she's an eyeful.
He looks her over.
She senses the fact that George is far from immune to her attractions.
She links her arm in his and continues on down the street with him.
They stop walking and face one another.
Her eyes are seductive and guileful as she looks up at him.
He is silent for a moment, then blurts out.
By this time a small crowd has collected to watch the above scene.
Violet is furious and talking in a loud voice, and George is trying to quiet her.
As George stalks off, the crowd breaks into laughter.
George is walking slowly past the Hatch home.
He walks past the house a few yards, turns, and starts back again.
Mary is looking out the window, watching George walk back and forth.
But after a few steps he turns around and starts back.
George stops, startled, and looks up.
George looks surprised at this.
But Mary has disappeared from the window.
Mary is running down the stairs.
Mary looks in a mirror at the bottom of the stairs and fixes her hair.
She is plainly excited at George's visit.
She runs into the parlor and puts a sketch on an easel.
It is a caricature of George throwing a lasso around the moon.
Then she opens the front door and stands there waiting for George.
George is struggling with the gate he finally kicks it open and starts slowly up the path toward Mary.
Mary and George are in the entrance hall.
They go through the doorway into the parlor.
George sees the cartoon on the easel and bends down for a close look at it.
George and Mary sitting on the divan.
There is silence for a moment, then Mary joins in singing with the phonograph record which has been playing all through the above scene.
He looks at his watch, as though about to leave.
He is uncomfortable, and she tries desperately to keep the conversation alive.
Mrs. Hatch, in a bathrobe, and with her hair in curlers, is leaning over the banister as she calls:
George and Mary seated on the divan.
George is aghast.
As George leaves the room, the telephone in the hall starts ringing.
Mary comes into the hall.
As Mary picks up the phone, George comes in from the front porch.
George has stopped, hat in hand, to hear the first greetings.
She hands the instrument to George.
Sam is seated at his desk, while a couple of his friends are nearby, with highballs in their hands.
As she hears this, she hastily hangs up the extension phone on which she has been listening.
Mary takes the telephone from George and holds it so that of necessity George's cheek is almost against hers.
He is very conscious of her proximity.
Mary is watching George interestedly.
George is very conscious of her, close to him.
As Mary listens, she turns to look at George, her lips almost on his lips.
George can stand it no longer.
He drops the phone with a crash, grabs Mary by the shoulders and shakes her.
Mary begins to cry.
He pulls her to him in a fierce embrace.
Two meant for each other find themselves in tearful ecstasy.
Mrs. Hatch is at the top of the stairs.
She practically faints at what she sees.
Cousin Tilly's face fills the screen as she cries.
CAMERA PULLS BACK, and we hear the SOUND of the Wedding March.
People are crowded into the rooms: family, friends, neighbors.
There is a din of conversation.
Mary and George appear at the top of the stairs in traveling clothes, with Mrs. Hatch, red-eyed, behind them.
Mary throws her bouquet, which is caught by Violet Bick.
As they come out onto the porch, we see that it is raining.
Nevertheless, Cousin Eustace has his camera equipment set up and is taking pictures of the group.
George and Mary dodge through the rain and a shower of rice and get into Ernie's taxicab, which pulls away from the curb.
Mrs. Bailey and Annie, the maid.
George and Mary are in each other's arms.
Ernie reaches over and hands George a bottle of champagne done up in gift wrappings.
The cab passes the bank, and Ernie sees a crowd of people around the door.
He stops the cab.
Scurrying people under umbrellas, swarming around the bank doors.
Panic is in the air.
Attendants are trying to close down.
Several people come running past the cab.
George gets out of the cab and looks down the street.
George runs off up the street, toward the Building and Loan.
They are simply-dressed people, to whom their savings are a matter of life and death.
George comes in with an assumed cheerful manner.
The people look at him silently, half shamefaced, but grimly determined on their rights.
In their hearts there is panic and fear.
An iron grill blocks the street entrance to the Building and Loan.
A crowd of men and women are waiting around the grill.
It has been locked.
He quickly unlocks the grill door and pushes it open.
Followed by the crowd, George runs upstairs and into the outer offices of the Building and Loan.
George, followed by the still-silent people, comes in.
Uncle Billy is standing in the doorway to his private office, taking a drink from a bottle.
He motions to George to join him.
George turns back cheerfully to the crowd.
George vaults over the counter.
The people ignore George and remain standing in front of the teller's window.
They all have their passbooks out.
George hurries into his office where Uncle Billy is waiting for him.
He points to George's office.
The telephone rings.
Uncle Billy picks it up.
Potter seated behind his desk, his goon alongside him.
Standing in front of the desk is a distinguished-looking man, obviously the president of the bank.
He is mopping his brow with his handkerchief.
George bangs the receiver down and turns to meet Uncle Billy's anxious look.
He realizes George has hung up, and clicks the phone furiously.
An ominous SOUND of angry voices comes from the other room.
George and Uncle Billy exit from George's office.
More people have crowded around the counter.
Their muttering stops and they stand silent and grim.
There is panic in their faces.
As George speaks, sirens are heard passing in the street below.
The crowd turn to the windows, then back to George.
Mary and Ernie have come into the room during this scene.
Mary stands watching silently.
A man (Randall) comes in and makes his way up to Tom.
He starts out.
A few other people start for the door.
CAMERA PANS WITH George as he vaults over the counter quickly, speaking to the people.
The people are still trying to get out, but some of them have stood still, listening to him.
George has begun to make an impression on them.
During this scene Mary has come up behind the counter.
Suddenly, as the people once more start moving toward the door, she holds up a roll of bills and calls out.
George jumps over the counter and takes the money from Mary.
Mary turns and slips out through the crowd, followed by Ernie.
George hands the two hundred and forty-two dollars to Tom, and speaks to Ed, the next in line.
Uncle Billy takes out his wallet and takes out all the cash he's got.
George, Uncle Billy and Cousin Tilly are behind the counter, watching the minute hand of a clock on the wall as George counts off the seconds.
Cousin Eustace is ready to close the door.
Cousin Eustace slams and locks the door, and scurries around the counter to join the others.
Uncle Billy is taking a drink out of his bottle.
The four of them parade through the office; George puts the two dollars in the safe.
George rushes into his office to look out the window.
George hurries into scene.
An old-fashioned, run-down house, unpainted and warped by the weather.
It once had class but has not been lived in for years.
This is the house that George and Mary will live in from now on.
The rain is pouring down.
A faint glow of light shines out from bottom windows.
He stops to make sure it is the right number before going up the steps.
Bert and man working in rain, sorting through travel posters.
A sharp whistle is heard.
Ernie is leaning from the window.
Bert and the man are putting up travel posters to cover up the broken windows.
Ernie looks out through the curtain covering the broken glass of the front door.
Ernie opens the door, revealing himself as a homemade butler.
This has been accomplished by rolling up his pants and putting on an old coachman's hat.
George enters.
They rush into each other's arms and hold each other in ecstasy.
They remain embraced.
They finish their song, and Ernie kisses Bert on the forehead.
Bert slams Ernie's hat on his head.
The Martini family is moving.
Martini and George, assisted by three of the Martini children, are carrying out the last of the furniture.
The family consists of Martini, his wife and four kid of various ages, from two to ten.
George and Mary are helping the Martinis move.
About a dozen neighbors crowd around.
Mary gets in the front seat of the car, with the baby in her arms.
The family goat gets in the back seat with the three kids.
In front of one of the miserable shacks that line the street are two vehicles.
One of them is George Bailey's rickety car, and the other is an even more rickety truck piled high with household goods.
The rickety caravan starts off down the street, to the cheers of the neighbors.
The kids enter, with screams of delight.
New lawns here and there, and young trees.
It has the promise when built up of being a pleasant little middle class section.
George and Mary are on the porch of the new house, with the Martinis lined up before them.
Sam Wainwright is standing in front of his big black town car.
Sam is the epitome of successful, up-and-coming businessman.
His wife, in the car, is a very attractive, sophisticated-looking lady, dripping with furs and jewels.
Sam is watching George across the street.
Mrs. Martini crosses herself.
The Martinis cross themselves, shaking hands all around.
Potter seated in his wheelchair at his desk, with his goon beside him.
His rent collector, Reineman, is talking, pointing to maps spread out on the desk.
A buzzer is heard, and Potter snaps on the dictaphone on his desk.
Reineman exits.
He flips the switch on the dictaphone.
George and Mary are talking to Sam Wainwright in front of the latter's car.
His wife, Jane, is now out of the car.
There is handshaking all around as Sam and Jane get into their car.
The big black limousine glides away, leaving George standing with his arm around Mary, gazing broodingly after it.
They slowly walk over to George's old car and look at it silently.
Potter is lighting a big cigar which he has just given George.
The goon is beside Potter's chair, as usual.
George drops his cigar on his lap.
He nervously brushes off the sparks from his clothes.
As they shake hands, George feels a physical revulsion.
Potter's hand feels like a cold mackerel to him.
In that moment of physical contact he knows he could never be associated with this man.
George drops his hand with a shudder.
He peers intently into Potter's face.
He turns and shouts at the goon, impassive as ever beside Potter's wheelchair.
As George opens the office door to exit, he shouts at Mr. Potter's secretary in the outer office.
The room is modestly furnished with just a cheap bed, a chair or two, and a dresser.
Mary is asleep in the bed.
As George comes in, his head is filled with many confusing thoughts, relating to incidents in his past life.
George takes off his hat and coat, moves over to the dresser and stares at his reflection in the mirror.
While the above thoughts are passing through George's head, his attention is caught by a picture on the wall near the dresser.
It is the sketch of George lassoing the moon that we first saw in Mary's living room.
Mary is now awake, and starts singing their theme song.
George crosses over and sits on the edge of the bed.
Mary nods her head happily.
Over the following SERIES OF SHOTS we hear the voices of Joseph and Clarence in Heaven.
George is crossing the street, heading for the offices of the Building and Loan.
Mary sitting on the floor playing with a baby.
A little boy is in a playpen nearby.
Mary is busy hanging wallpaper and painting the old place.
George has just come into the hall.
He is obviously tired and discouraged as he starts up the stairs.
The knob on the banister comes off in his hand.
A group of men, obviously just drafted, marching along in a camp.
Mrs. Bailey and other women in Red Cross uniforms busily sewing, etc.
Mary, with portable U.S.O. pushcart, is serving coffee and doughnuts to men leaning from the train.
Sam Wainwright showing set of blueprints to two Army officers.
Potter is wheeled in toward a long table around which several men are seated.
Gower and Uncle Billy are conducting a bond rally from the top of an Army tank.
Bert, in uniform, moving cautiously with fixed bayonet.
Smoke and flashes of gunfire in background.
Hundreds of planes, flying overhead, with parachutes dropping from them.
Marty in the foreground, beckoning to soldiers to come on.
Harry is fastening the helmet of his flying clothes.
He waves as he exits through the door.
A flaming plane crashes into the sea.
George, behind the counter, is trying to quiet a crowd of people all clamoring for more ration points.
George shouts.
George, in the uniform of an air raid warden, is patrolling his beat.
Man beside lighted window pulls down the shade as George blows his whistle.
George is helping load his old car with scrap paper.
Wheelbarrow full of junk being dumped onto pile.
It is a raw, gusty day, and his overcoat and muffler flap in the breeze.
George is walking along the sidewalk reading a newspaper.
Draped around one arm is a large Christmas wreath.
Under his other arm are several more copies of the paper.
George comes to where Ernie, the taxi driver, is standing on the sidewalk.
The front page of the paper, the Bedford Falls Sentinel.
The subhead tells of a plan for a giant jubilee and parade, to be followed by a banquet, in honor of Commander Harry Bailey, U.S.N. on his way home from Washington after receiving the Congressional Medal of Honor.
There's a large picture of President Truman pinning the coveted medal on Harry's bosom, in the midst of dignitaries; a picture of the transport which Harry saved.
Practically the whole front page is devoted to the story.
Gower comes running across the street from his drugstore and joins them.
Uncle Billy is walking along the street, humming happily to himself.
The outer door opens and George enters.
The offices are unchanged, still small-time and old-fashioned.
Cousin Tilly and Cousin Eustace are talking on the phone.
The same office force, albeit a few years older: Cousin Tilly and Cousin Eustace.
Seated on a chair is a middle-aged man with a brief case.
Cousin Eustace has turned away from George and caught a glimpse of the man waiting in the chair.
This is Carter, the bank examiner, come for his annual audit of the books of the Building and Loan.
He gives the phone to Eustace, puts down his wreath and goes over to Carter.
They shake hands.
Uncle Billy is filling out a deposit slip at one of the desks.
He grabs the paper from Potter's hand.
Uncle Billy folds Potter's paper over the envelope containing his money, and flings his final taunt at the old man.
In a cold rage, Potter grabs his paper and wheels off toward his office.
Uncle Billy smiles triumphantly and goes toward deposit window with his deposit slip.
Uncle Billy hands the bank book over.
The teller opens it, starts to punch it with rubber stamps.
Uncle Billy searches through every pocket he has.
The teller, knowing the old man's vagaries, points to one of the numerous string tied around his fingers.
Potter is now behind his desk.
He spreads the newspaper out in front of him, muttering as he does so.
He sees the envelope, looks inside at the money.
Then, to his goon, indicating the office door.
Potter opens the door just a little, and peers through into the bank.
He starts thumping his pockets, with increasing panic, and looks in the waste paper basket on the floor.
Uncle Billy looks around for the money envelope.
He looks puzzled, thinks hard, then a look of concern creeps into his eyes.
He finally rushes through the door and out into the street.
The goon wheels him back to his desk.
He is deep in thought, with a crafty expression on his face.
Uncle Billy running across the street in the direction of the Building and Loan.
George coming from room where he has just left the bank examiner.
He sees Violet Bick standing there.
He hears a noise, and sees Uncle Billy entering the office.
Uncle Billy comes hurrying in.
Uncle Billy picks up the phone and speaks distractedly, without knowing what he is saying.
He hangs up agitatedly, muttering to himself as he goes into his own office.
Cousin Tilly and Cousin Eustace look after him, dumbfounded.
George has just finished writing something, and is slipping the paper into an envelope.
She looks at him, then says a strange thing.
She reaches up and kisses him on the cheek, leaving lipstick.
George opens the door for her.
As George and Violet come through the door, they are being watched by Cousin Tilly, Cousin Eustace and the bank examiner, who is still waiting to go to work on the books.
Violet sees the lipstick on George's cheek, and dabs at it with her handkerchief.
She exits.
As George opens the door he sees Uncle Billy frantically looking for the missing envelope.
The office is in a mess, drawers are opened, and papers scattered on the floor and on the desk.
George stops short, suddenly aware of the tragic old eyes looking up at him.
Uncle Billy gestures nervously for George to come in.
He does so and closes the door.
Cousin Tilly is at her switchboard, and Cousin Eustace standing beside her.
Suddenly the door opens and George comes striding out.
He goes directly to the safe and starts searching, but doesn't find the money.
Then he goes to the cash drawer in the counter, and looks through it.
Carter is still waiting in the doorway to his office.
Cousin Eustace runs over to George.
Uncle Billy and George are retracing the former's steps through the snow, looking everywhere for the missing money.
They pause for a moment on the sidewalk.
They continue on down the street on their search.
Potter is peering through the slats of the Venetian blind, watching them as they go.
George and Uncle Billy continue their search.
A shabby, old-fashioned, gas-lit room which has been turned almost inside out and upside down in an effort to locate the missing money.
George grabs him by the lapels and shakes him.
George jerks him to his feet and shakes him.
Uncle Billy stands before him like a frisked criminal, all his pockets hanging out, empty.
He throws Uncle Billy down into his chair, and still shouts at him.
George's eyes and manner are almost maniacal.
George turns and heads for the door, kicking viciously at a waste basket on the floor as he goes.
Drawers of an old secretary have been pulled out and are on the floor.
Uncle Billy starts sobbing hysterically.
Uncle Billy is seated behind the desk, his head on his hands.
Uncle Billy remains sobbing at the table, his head in his arms.
There is a Christmas tree all decorated near the fireplace.
Mary turns and sees George enter the hall, a slight powdering of snow on his head and shoulders.
George sneezes violently.
Mary stares at him, aware that something unusual has happened.
George slumps into an armchair and lifts Tommy onto his lap.
Mary is helping Pete decorate the Christmas tree.
During this scene, George has been sitting in the chair, hugging Tommy to him, and crying quietly.
Mary realizes that something is seriously wrong, and breaks off.
Janie is thumping away at the piano.
Mary leads him out toward the kitchen.
They exit with Tommy hanging onto George's coat-tails, and pulling at him.
As they go toward kitchen, CAMERA PANS WITH them.
Tommy leaves, and Mary turns to the stove.
They come through the door.
George paces about the kitchen, worried.
George goes toward doorway.
Mary looks after him, puzzled and concerned, then comes over to Pete.
The knob on the banister comes off in his hand, and for a moment he has an impulse to hurl it into the living room.
Then, he replaces the knob, and goes on up the stairs.
The SOUND of Janie at the piano can be heard, the same monotonous rhythm over and over.
Zuzu (aged six) is sitting up in her bed, the lamp burning beside her.
She is holding her prize flower.
George tiptoes in.
Then, as he sees she's awake, he comes over, sitting on the edge of her bed.
She starts to get out of bed.
She shakes her head and presses the flower to her.
A few petals fall off.
She picks them up.
She hands him the fallen petals and the flower.
He turns his back to Zuzu, pretending to be tinkering with the flower.
He sticks the fallen petals in his watch pocket, rearranges the flower, and then turns back to Zuzu.
George puts the flower in a glass of water on the table beside her bed.
They whisper.
Mary comes in and picks up the phone.
George enters shot, and stands listening to her.
He snatches the phone from Mary.
She puts a restraining hand on his arm.
He shakes it off.
She cannot know that George's tirade against Mrs. Welch is really a tirade against the world, against life itself, against God.
Mary succeeds in wresting the phone from George's hand.
Mary speaks quickly in to the phone.
But the telephone is suddenly alive with a powerful male voice calling.
Mary once more tries to take the phone from him.
But before he can think of an insult to top Welch's, we hear a click on the phone.
He yells at Tommy, noisily playing with his vacuum cleaner.
Janie is still practicing at the piano, monotonously.
The room has suddenly become ominously quiet, the only SOUND being George's labored breathing.
George goes over to a corner of the room where his workshop is set up a drawing table, several models of modern buildings, bridges, etc.
Savagely he kicks over the models, picks up some books and hurls them into the corner.
Mary and the children watch, horrified.
George looks around and sees them staring at him as if he were some unknown wild animal.
Mary and the children stare at him, stunned by his furious outburst.
There is silence in the room.
Janie breaks into sobs.
The sight of Mary and the children suffering is too much for George.
He looks around him, then quickly goes out the front door of the house.
Mary goes to the phone, picks it up.
Potter is seated at his desk, his goon beside him.
He is signing some papers.
George is seated in a chair before the desk, without a hat or coat, covered lightly with snow.
George turns and starts out of the office as Potter picks up the phone and dials.
George is out of the door by now.
CAMERA MOVES CLOSER to Potter.
George comes out of the bank into the falling snow.
He crosses the street, tugs at the door of his old car, finally steps over the door, and drives off.
The place is an Italian restaurant with bar.
The bottles sparkle.
There are Christmas greens and holly decorating the place.
It has a warm, welcoming spirit, like Martini himself, who is welcoming new arrivals.
There is an air of festivity and friendliness, and more like a party than a public drinking place.
George is seated at the bar he has had a great deal to drink, far more than he's accustomed to.
During this, CAMERA MOVES CLOSER to George.
George is mumbling.
Nick, the bartender, is watching him solicitously.
Martini comes over to his side.
George shakes his head.
Seated on the other side of George is a burly individual, drinking a glass of beer.
Without any warning, the burly man throws a vicious punch at George, who goes down and out.
Martini, Nick and several others rush to pick him up.
Mr. Welch reaches in his pocket for money.
Nick and Martini shove Welch out the door, then run back to help George to his feet.
George's mouth is cut and bleeding.
He starts for the door.
Nick and Martini try to stop him, but he shrugs them off.
George opens the door and exits to the street.
George's car comes along the empty street, through the falling snow, suddenly swerves and crashes into a tree near the sidewalk of a house.
George gets out to look at the damage, and savagely kicks at the open door of the car, trying to shut it.
The noise brings the owner of the house running out.
The front lights are broken and the fender is ripped.
George stands unsteadily near the car, shaken by the accident.
George stands dully looking at the damage.
The owner comes up, looking at his tree.
He leans over to examine the damages.
George staggers off down the street, paying no attention to the man.
George is crossing the approach to the bridge when a truck swings around the corner and nearly hits him.
The truck turns onto the bridge, and George takes a narrow catwalk at the railing.
George has stopped by the railing at the center of the bridge.
The snow is now falling hard.
CAMERA SHOOTING DOWN from George's angle TO the water, dotted with floating ice, passing under the bridge.
He stares down at the water, desperate, trying to make up his mind to act.
He leans over looking at the water, fascinated, glances furtively around him, hunches himself as though about to jump.
From above George a body hurtles past and lands in the water with a loud splash.
George looks down, horrified.
George quickly takes off his coat and dives over the railing into the water.
George comes up, sees the man flailing about in the water, and CAMERA PANS WITH him as he swims toward the man.
The toll house keeper, hearing the cries for help, comes running out on the bridge with a flashlight, which he shines on the two figures struggling in the water below.
George reaches him, grabs hold of him, and starts swimming for shore.
The man in the water is Clarence, the angel whose voice we have heard speaking from Heaven.
George is seated before a wood-burning stove before which his clothes are drying on a line.
He is in his long winter underwear.
He is sipping a mug of hot coffee, staring at the stove, cold, gloomy and drunk, ignoring Clarence and the tollkeeper, preoccupied by his near suicide and his unsolved problems.
This is a ludicrous seventeenth century garment which looks like a baby's night shirt with embroidered cuffs and collar, and gathered at the neck with a drawstring.
Clarence is standing on the other side of the stove, putting on his undershirt.
The tollkeeper is seated against the wall eyeing them suspiciously.
Clarence becomes aware that his garment is amazing the tollkeeper.
It falls below his knees.
He shakes the book.
The tollkeeper stares at him incredulously.
George looks up, surprised.
Throughout the scene he attempts to spit, but each time is stopped by some amazing thing Clarence does or says.
The tollkeeper, about to spit, is stopped in the middle of it by this remark.
He leans forward to spit, but is stopped by Clarence's next statement.
George and the tollkeeper react to this.
George casually looks at the strange smiling little man a second time.
The tollkeeper becomes increasingly nervous.
George's hand goes to his mouth.
He has been leaning against the wall on it, tipped back on two legs.
The tollkeeper's chair slips out from under him with a crash.
Tollkeeper rises and makes his way warily out the door.
From his expression he looks like he'll call the nearest cop.
George rubs his head with his hand, to clear his mind.
He looks up at Clarence standing beside him.
Clarence is not getting far with George.
He glances up, paces across the room, thoughtfully.
As Clarence speaks this line, the snow stops falling outside the building, a strong wind springs up which blows open the door to the shack.
Clarence runs to close the door.
As Clarence speaks, George cocks his head curiously, favoring his deaf ear, more interested in his hearing than in what Clarence has said.
George feels his ear as Clarence talks.
George indicates his bad ear.
George feels his lip, which shows no sign of the recent cut he received from Welch.
He is now thoroughly confused.
George feels the clothes on the line.
They start dressing.
George interrupts himself.
This is the same empty street where George's car swerved into the tree near the sidewalk.
George and Clarence come into shot and up to the spot where George had left his car smashed against the tree.
George looks around, but his car is nowhere to be seen, and the tree is undamaged.
The owner of the house passes with some Christmas packages under his arm.
The owner bends down to examine the trunk of the tree, then straightens up and smells George's breath.
He backs away.
The owner proceeds toward his house.
George is completely bewildered.
He puts his arm around Clarence, and they start off up the road.
It is Martini's place, but almost unrecognizable.
The cheerful Italian feeling is gone.
It is now more of a hard-drinking joint, a honky-tonk.
Same bar, tables have no covers.
People are lower down and tougher.
George and Clarence come in.
They go up to the bar.
Two people leave the bar as they approach.
Nick the bartender is behind the bar.
As he says this, Nick leans over the counter and puts his left fist nearly in Clarence's eye.
Clarence is puzzled by this conduct.
Nick turns away to get the drinks.
Nick is listening suspiciously to this conversation.
Nick stops pouring the drinks, bottle poised in his hand.
George glances up at Nick.
Nick slams the bottle down on the counter.
A small wreck of a man, with weak, watery eyes.
Obviously a broken-down panhandler, his hat in his hand.
It is Gower the druggist.
He can hardly believe his eyes.
Nick picks up a seltzer bottle, and squirts Gower in the face with it.
The crowd laugh brutally.
Gower smiles weakly as the soda runs off his face.
George, horrified, leaps up and goes over to Gower.
The bouncers throw Gower out the front door.
George rushes back to the bar.
George and Clarence come flying through the door and land in the snow.
Nick at the cash register, busily ringing the bell.
George and Clarence lying in the snow.
George has a strange, puzzled look on his face.
They remain for a moment as they landed, looking at each other.
George catches a glimpse of the front of the building with the neon sign over the door.
George and Clarence get to their feet.
He points to the sign, and looks at Clarence.
Clarence sort of hangs his head.
George fixes him with a very interested look.
George, still looking at him, goes up to him and pokes his arm.
It's flesh.
George rapidly searches his pockets for identification, but without success.
George is completely befuddled.
George feverishly continues to turn his pockets inside out.
He starts off.
Clarence rises.
George strides off hurriedly.
Clarence slowly follows him, glancing up toward Heaven as he goes.
George looks at it in surprise, then starts up the street toward the main part of town.
As he goes, CAMERA MOVES WITH him.
The character of the place has completely changed.
Where before it was a quiet, orderly small town, it has now become in nature like a frontier village.
We see a SERIES OF SHOTS of night clubs, cafes, bars, liquor stores, pool halls and the like, with blaring jazz MUSIC issuing from the majority of them.
Gower's drugstore is now a pawnbroker's establishment, and so on.
The motion picture theatre has become a burlesque house.
George stops before what used to be the offices of the Building and Loan.
A crowd of people are watching the police, who are raiding the place, and dragging out a number of screaming women, whom they throw into a patrol wagon.
George talks to one of the cops.
George sees the struggling figure of Violet Bick, arrayed as a tart, being dragged into the patrol wagon.
The cop shoves George to one side.
He looks around and sees Ernie's taxi cruising slowly by.
Ernie stops the cab, and George enters it.
Ernie turns to driving, but he's worried about his passenger.
As he passes the burlesque house he sees Bert the cop standing beside his police car.
Attracting his attention, he motions to Bert to follow him, indicating he has a nut in the back.
Bert gets into his car and follows.
The taxi pulls up to the curb and stops.
The cab is parked.
George gets out and looks at the house.
George is stopped momentarily by the appearance of the house.
Windows are broken, the porch sags, one section of the roof has fallen, doors and shutters hang askew on their hinges.
Like a doomed man, George approaches the house.
The police car has pulled up beside the cab, and Bert and Ernie stand watching George's actions.
Ernie switches on the spotlight on his cab, and turns the beam toward the old house.
The interior of the house is lit up here and there, ghostlike, by Ernie's spotlight.
In a voice that sounds like a cry for help, George yells out.
Clarence suddenly appears leaning against a wall.
Bert is standing in the entrance, with his gun in his hand.
He rushes toward Bert.
Ernie is a few feet behind him, ready to run.
Bert tries to lead George away by the arm, but George struggles with him, trying to explain.
Bert raises his gun to hit George on the head.
As he does so, Clarence darts in and fixes his teeth in Bert's wrist, forcing him to let George go.
George dashes out of the house and down the street, as Bert grapples with Clarence, and they fall to the ground, wrestling.
We see Bert kneeling, trying to put handcuffs on Clarence.
Suddenly Clarence disappears from under Bert's hands.
Bert gets up, amazed by his vanishing.
He runs out of the scene.
George runs up the path to the front door of the house and raps on the door.
The door opens and a woman appears.
It is Mrs. Bailey, but she has changed amazingly.
Her face is harsh and tired.
In her eyes, once kindly and understanding, there is now cold suspicion.
She gives no sign that she knows him.
It is a cruel blow to George.
She starts to close the door, but George stops her.
She slams the door shut in George's face.
George stands a moment, stunned.
Then he turns and runs out to the sidewalk, until his face fills the screen.
His features are distorted by the emotional chaos within him.
They walk out of scene.
Now it is just outside a cemetery, with graves where the houses used to be.
The two walk into the cemetery.
George wandering like a lost soul among the tombstones, Clarence trotting at his heels.
George jumps up.
George grabs Clarence by the coat collar and shakes him.
George lets Clarence go, and runs off.
Clarence falls to the ground, where he rubs his neck.
Mary comes out the door, then turns and locks it.
We see George watching her from the sidewalk.
Mary is very different no buoyancy in her walk, none of Mary's abandon and love of life.
Glasses, no make-up, lips compressed, elbows close to body.
She looks flat and dried up, and extremely self- satisfied and efficient.
George, as he watches her.
She looks up, surprised, but, not recognizing him, continues on.
George and Mary, on the sidewalk.
Mary starts to run away from him, and he follows, desperately.
He catches up to her, grabs her by the arms, and keeps a tight grip on her.
She struggles to free herself.
Mary breaks away from him, and dashes into the first door she comes to, the Blue Moon Bar.
Mary comes running in, screaming.
George comes in, practically insane.
It is crowded.
The place goes into an uproar.
Some of the men grab and hold on to him.
Many of the people are the same who were present during the run on the Building and Loan.
Mary lets out a final scream, then faints into the arms of a couple of women at the bar.
Just as George breaks through the door, Bert arrives in his police car.
He gets out and heads for the door, to run into George as he comes out.
He grabs for George, who lets him have one square on the button, knocking him down, then continues running down the street yelling for Clarence.
Bert gets up, takes out his gun and fires several shots after the fleeing figure.
Bert gets into the police car, and, siren screaming, sets off in pursuit of George.
The same part of the bridge where George was standing before Clarence jumped in.
George comes running into shot.
The wind is blowing as it has all through this sequence.
He is frantically looking for Clarence.
George leaning on the bridge railing, praying.
George sobs.
Suddenly, toward the end of the above, the wind dies down.
A soft, gentle snow begins to fall.
The police car pulls up on the roadway behind him, and Bert comes into scene.
George backs away and gets set to hit Bert again.
George touches his lips with his tongue, wipes his mouth with his hand, laughs happily.
His rapture knows no bounds.
He practically embraces the astonished Bert, then runs at top speed toward town.
George's wrecked car is smashed against the tree.
He comes running into shot, sees the car, lets out a triumphant yell, pats the car, and dashes on.
He turns and runs through the falling snow up the main street of the town.
He passes some late shoppers on the street.
As he runs, he notices that the town is back in its original appearance.
George notices a light in Potter's office window, and races across the street.
Potter is seated working at his desk, his goon by his side.
George pounds on the window.
George runs off as Potter looks up from his work.
The lights are on.
The Christmas tree is fully decorated with presents stacked around.
Carter, the bank examiner, a newspaper reporter and photographer, and a sheriff, are waiting in the hall for George.
George comes dashing in the front door.
He grabs his hand and shakes it.
The photographer sets off a flash bulb.
George runs to the kitchen.
He gets no answer.
He comes running back to the hall.
The three children are at the top of the stairs.
They are in their pajamas.
George starts to run up the stairs, and the old familiar knob on the banister comes off in his hand.
He kisses it lovingly and puts it back, then continues up the stairs.
George and the kids.
He is hugging them.
Zuzu comes running out of her bedroom.
George crushes her to him.
As Mary comes through the door, breathless and excited.
The four men are watching with open mouths.
Mary races up the stairs, where George meets her in a fierce embrace.
George and Mary embrace tearfully.
He stops her with a kiss.
She leads him excitedly down the stairs.
Mary leads George, who is carrying a couple of the kids on his back, to a position in front of the Christmas tree.
She runs toward front door and flings it open.
Ad lib SOUNDS of an excited crowd can be heard.
Uncle Billy, face flushed, covered with snow, and carrying a clothes basket filled with money, bursts in.
He is followed by Ernie, and about twenty more townspeople.
Uncle Billy Mary and the crowd come into the living room.
A table stands in front of George.
Uncle Billy dumps the basketful of money out onto the table the money overflows and falls all over.
The rest of the crowd all greet George with greetings and smiles.
Each one comes forward with money.
In their pockets, in shoe boxes, in coffee pots.
Money pours onto the table pennies, dimes, quarters, dollar bills small money, but lots of it.
Mrs. Bailey and Mrs. Hatch push toward George.
More people come in.
The place becomes a bedlam.
Mary stands next to George, watching him.
Tom comes in, digging in his purse as he comes.
Charlie adds his money to the pile.
George stands there overcome and speechless as he holds Zuzu.
As he sees the familiar faces, he gives them sick grins.
Tears course down his face.
Ernie is trying to get some system into the chaos.
Mr. Martini comes in bearing a mixing bowl overflowing with cash.
Martini dumps his money on the table.
His lips frame their names as he greets them.
Mr. Gower enters with a large glass jar jammed full of notes.
Violet Bick arrives, and takes out the money George had given her for her trip to New York.
Annie, the colored maid, enters, digging money out of a long black stocking.
Mr. Partridge, the high school principal, is the next donor.
Ernie is reading a telegram he has just received.
The crowd breaks into a cheer as Ernie drops the telegram on top of the pile of money on the table.
As various members of the family bring out a punch bowl and glasses, Janie sits down at the piano and strikes a chord.
Carter, the bank examiner, makes a donation; the sheriff sheepishly looks at George and tears his warrant in small pieces.
In the midst of this scene, Harry, in Naval uniform, enters, accompanied by Bert, the cop.
Mrs. Bailey enters scene.
Ernie hands Harry a glass of wine.
Once more the crowd breaks into cheering and applause.
His eye catches something on top of the pile, and he reaches down for it.
At this moment, perhaps because of the jostling of some of the people on the other side of the tree, a little silver bell on the Christmas tree swings to and fro with a silvery tinkle.
Zuzu closes the cover of the book, and points to the bell.
He looks up toward the ceiling and winks.
The hobos stare.
Everett gives an ingratiating smile as, behind him, the second convict starts to haul himself into the boxcar, the third convict still keeping pace outside.
The convict running outside the boxcar door stumbles and disappears and the middle convict is yanked out immediately after.
Everett, just finishing his speech, flips forward in turn, smashes his chin onto the floor and is sucked out the open doorway, his clawing fingernails leaving parallel grooves on the boxcar floorboards.
The hobos impassively watch.
The three men tumble, clanking, down the track embankment.
Squush - they come to a rest in swampland at the bottom.
They shake their heads clear, then rise to their feet in the muck and watch the train recede.
Its fading clatter leaves the baying of hounds.
Everett looks desperately about.
Both men look interrogatively to Delmar.
He looks from Pete to Everett, and nods agreeably.
Everett makes a sudden hushing gesture and all listen.
The men turn in unison to look up the track.
A small, distant form is moving slowly up the track toward them.
As it draws closer it resolves into a human-propelled flatcar.
An ancient black man rhythmically pumps its long seesaw handle.
The three convicts look out at the swampland which begins to show movement, the bowing grass trampled by men and dogs.
The flatcar draws even and slows.
The three men clamber aboard and the old man resumes pumping.
The three convicts, faces upturned, listen raptly to the blind prophet.
The cloudy eyes of the old man stare sightlessly down the track as the seesaw handle rises and falls through frame.
The old man pumps - reek-a reek-a reek-a - as all contemplate his words.
Bang! A rifle shot kicks up dust in front of the men.
The front of the farm house shows only a harshly shaded front porch and a dark screen door.
The screen door swings open and a child emerges on to the porch and steps down into the sunlight, holding a gun almost bigger than he is.
The grimy-faced boy, about eight years old, wears tattered overalls.
He pokes his rifle at the three men, who raise their hands.
Wash Hogwallop, a sour-looking bald man, sits near a rusted bathtub in a yard littered with ancient car parts and farm implements overgrown with weeds.
He is whittling artlessly at a stick.
He glances up as the three convicts clank around the corner, then returns to his whittling.
The four men and little boy sit around the kitchen table eating stew.
A Sears Roebuck catalogue on the boy's chair brings him to table height.
Wash glances at the little boy.
The three men slurp their stew.
He sniffs dubiously at his spoon.
The four men sit about listening to a big box radio.
Wash is whittling once again; Everett dips his comb into a pomade jar and carefully works on his hair; Pete is digging around with a toothpick; Delmar dreamily waves one hand in time to the music.
Everett clears his throat.
He screws the lid back on the pomade.
Sleeping in a hayloft.
Everett wears a hairnet over his painstakingly arranged hair.
A spotlight plays over the hayloft ceiling and a voice booms.
The three men rouse themselves.
From high we see a foreshortened lawman holding a bullhorn surrounded by armed deputies.
Next to the man with the bullhorn, a tin-starred sheriff watches impassively through mirrored sunglasses, a bloodhound drooling at his side.
Pete screams down from the hayport.
RAT-A-TAT-A-TAT- Everett pulls Pete down as a tommy gun spits lead into the hayloft.
Pete is enraged.
Pete grabs a flaming faggot and hurls it down at the deputized congregation.
It lands harmlessly in some scattered straw.
The drum of one starts spinning.
Flames lick up the outside of the van as - chinka-chinka- chinka - bullet holes walk across the body.
Yelling men scurry away.
The vehicle rocks and chatters under the force of the many tommy guns now firing inside.
Tires pop, hiss and settle; doors pop open; glass shatters.
Pete, Everett and Delmar pile in.
The doors slam shut and the boy grinds into gear.
He has wood blocks strapped to his feet so that he can reach accelerator, brake and clutch.
He sits on a Sears Roebuck catalogue to give him a view over the dash.
The car speeds for the far wall, sheeted in flame, and bursts through.
The little Hogwallop boy walks away in long shot down the middle of the empty road.
His walk is unsteady, the wood blocks still strapped to his feet.
He turns to face us and hollers.
Pete enters in the foreground and throws a dirt clod at the boy.
It lands shy as Pete yells.
We pan Pete over to the shoulder where the car is stopped, its hood propped open.
Everett and Delmar are looking at the engine.
He pushes a small tin across the counter.
Everett is stunned.
Everett picks up the tin.
On a wooded hillside.
They sit at a twig fire, roasting a small creature on a spit.
He stalks into frame and plops disgustedly down by the fire.
He grimly shakes his head.
He scrapes the last of it onto his comb and starts combing his hair.
Everett fishes a gold watch from his pocket and tosses it to Pete.
Pete looks at the watch, puzzled.
Pete pops the front and reads the inscription.
Delmar whistles appreciatively.
He lurches threateningly to his feet.
Everett scrambles up.
Everett too watches the white-robed people following in the wake of the tenor.
There are more and more white robes drifting through the woods, all of them strangely oblivious to the three men.
There is an endless stream now, drifting through the foreground, the background, the campsite itself.
We are booming down to reveal a minister in the foreground.
He stands belly-deep in the river, easing a white-robed man back-down into the water.
Behind him a line of robed singers lengthens steadily as people stream out of the woods.
Pete, Delmar and Everett emerge from the woods and gaze down at the river.
White-robed people continue to drift past them.
Delmar wades out into the stream, cutting in line.
Delmar has reached the minister and holds his nose as the minister incantates over him and lowers him into the water.
The smoldering twig fire.
A bloodhound on a leash circles into frame, its tail fiercely wagging.
We follow it as, nose to the ground and straining against its leash, it waddles over to an empty tin of Dapper Dan pomade.
Everett drives, shaking his head with a forebearing smile.
Pete, sitting next to him, and Delmar, in back, are both dripping wet.
He shakes his head and laughs.
A thirtyish black man in worn go-to-meetin' clothes stands on the shoulder, waggling his thumb at the passing car.
He grabs his battered guitar case as the car pulls over and trots up to the open window.
Everett looks at the man in the rearview mirror as he pulls out.
Tommy shrugs.
Everett's eyes narrow as he studies the man in the rearview.
The car is pulling into the parking lot of a single-story cement-block building with a hundred-foot antenna and a handpainted sign.
As the men get out of the car, Everett snaps his suspenders.
Everett strides up to a portly middle-aged man who wears dark glasses and holds a white cane.
Everett grimaces, thinking.
The three singing convicts form a semi-circle behind Tommy, who plays his guitar into a can microphone.
They are performing a hot and harmonized version of 'Man of Constant Sorrow'.
When they finish Everett whoops and slaps Tommy on the back.
A caravan of two oversize cars is pulling into the lot just as Tommy and the three convicts burst out of the station door, whooping it up.
A sixty-year-old man in enormous seersucker pants held up by suspenders and the outward pressure of a blooming belly is getting out of the first car.
Delmar waves a fistful of money at him.
A big shambling man of about thirty has followed him out of the car.
As Pappy brushes by them, Junior wheedles.
Pappy slaps at the young man with his hat.
Pappy waves his hat at the radio building as singers in faux hillbilly outfits with various musical instrument cases get out of the second car.
Tommy sits in the background, playing and singing a slow blues.
The three convicts, holding coffee cups, gaze into the fire.
He stretches out.
Pete swishes his coffee as he stares into the blaze.
He gives his coffee a thoughtful swish and murmurs.
The three men tense up.
Pete shovels dirt onto the fire as Delmar and Everett scramble to peek over a low ridge.
Their point-of-view shows a lone barn with their car parked to one side.
Various police vehicles have pulled up facing the barn, and armed men, their backs to us, train guns on it, some taking cover on the near side of their parked cars.
The man with the bullhorn continues, directing his comments at the distant barn.
The three convicts notice the sheriff who once again stands impassively next to the man with the bullhorn, holding a leash against which a bloodhound strains.
The three men shuffle down the dusty road.
He loses his drift as all three men turn, reacting to the sound of an approaching speeding car.
The car comes into view cornering on two wheels.
It crashes back onto all four and, as it speeds along, dollar bills snap and flutter out its windows.
The car roars up to the three men as Delmar waggles a hopeful thumb.
It screeches to a halt.
The driver, a young man in a sharp suit with a round, babylike face, leans over to call through the passenger window.
Delmar plucks a fluttering dollar bill out of the air and looks at it wonderingly.
He holds it stretched between two hands, brings the two sides together, then gives it an appraising pop.
Like a child gazing at soap bubbles, Delmar looks around at the wafting currency, and yanks another fluttering bill out of the air.
The three men climb in and the car squeals out.
The driver shoots a glance up to the rearview mirror as the sirens grow louder, then gropes inside his coat.
The man stops withdrawing the gun and appraises his passengers.
Delmar reacts to the paper currency fluttering inside the car.
He opens his door and steps onto the running board, giving Everett a casual.
Everett slides over, startled.
George Nelson, now fully outside and facing the pursuit vehicles, has one hand clamped on the car roof and waves to Delmar with the other.
Nelson sends a spray of bullets back at the pursuit car.
Nelson fires wildly as the pursuit cars gain on him, returning fire.
He suddenly notices a herd of cattle grazing at the roadside and murmurs.
He swings the tommy gun over with a whoop.
One of the cows drops and the rest stampede toward the road.
Energized, Nelson resumes bellowing.
In bovine ignorance of the conventions of high-speed police pursuit, some of the cows have wandered up onto the road.
The lead police car broadsides one.
George Nelson, cackling wildly, fires into the air as his car recedes.
The car is speeding into town, dodging and weaving through light traffic as George fires into the air - perhaps a means of clearing a path, perhaps an expression of high spirits.
The car screeches to a halt and George hops out, and the three convicts emerge to follow him.
Jowls shaking in a full run, George Nelson bursts through the door of the bank, followed by the three men.
He fires into the ceiling and leaps up onto a table.
He leaps down, fires into the air again, and sweeps a young woman standing in line into a full V-J dip, kissing her on the lips.
Delmar nudges Everett.
He whips open his suitcoat to reveal a half-dozen sticks of dynamite.
He sends a burst into the ceiling, and heads for the door as customers murmur.
George whirls.
The customers stare mutely back.
The customers shuffle their feet and glance uncomfortably about.
Delmar lays a hand on George's shoulder and tries to steer him toward the door.
George responds, barely audible and without brightening.
Everett and Pete exchange significant looks.
He digs into a pocket and tosses his car keys to a dumbfounded Delmar.
George has turned woodenly and walks away, leaving the campfire's flickering circle of light.
Delmar stares at Everett, who looks appraisingly at George's retreating back.
Pete scrambles to pick up the loose money.
A stakebed truck approaches along the road bordering the field.
It is festooned with Stokes banners showing the candidate holding high a broom.
Pickers perform in the bed of the truck, along with a dancer doing a two-step as he pushes a broom.
A midget in overalls waves his arms, as if conducting the music.
He switches off the microphone as the song, a duet of 'I'll Fly Away', scratchily issues from a monitor.
He turns his attention back to a well-dressed man sitting nearby.
- The three men walk down a flat delta road, the sun shimmering off the rough pavement.
The three men stand in the middle distance, waiting.
In the foreground two little black boys are walking home, each carrying a block of ice.
- A spinning on a green felt turntable.
The crude black label identifies it as 'Man of Constant Sorrow' by the Soggy Bottom Boys.
- A high shot looking down through the rain past the dripping eave of a barn, under which Everett, Pete and Delmar have taken cover.
The three hold their coats pinched shut at the neck as they look forlornly up at the weather.
- The three men walk along a red dirt road elevated through a bayou.
- The three men sit around a campfire.
Everett sits on a stump, expressively telling a ghost story as Pete and Delmar gaze at him from below, wide-eyed and rapt.
- The three men walk past a cotton field dotted with burst pods.
A sad-faced woman in a calico dress addresses the clerk.
The sad-faced woman is crestfallen.
Before the car has even come to a stop Pete's door flies open and he is stumbling down the bank to the river.
Everett and Delmar follow more casually, Everett chuckling.
The unearthly singing, full volume here, comes from the three women, beautiful but marked by an otherworldly langor as they dunk clothes in the stream and beat them against rocks.
Pete is all awkward smiles and deep, burning eyes.
Strangely, the three laundresses do not answer, though they do smile at him as they continue to sing.
Pete tries again as she reaches into their laundry basket.
Pete's eyes stay glued on the women as he hisses out of the corner of his mouth.
Everett laughs lightly.
None of the women respond but, as all continue to sing, one brings a jug marked with three Xes to Everett.
Delmar stares horrified at the pile of clothes: a spot in the middle of the shirt is rising and falling, rising and falling.
Everett joins Delmar to look.
The rhythmic rising and falling now travels up the shirt.
A large yellow toad sticks its head out from under the collar.
Delmar keens.
Everett is bewildered.
The toad hops down the river bank.
Delmar has the toad in his lap.
He whimpers as he pets it.
The frog croaks.
Delmar continues to whimper.
Everett squints and shakes his head.
The tables are formally laid with linen.
Delmar and Everett sit at a table, a shoebox between them, deep in conversation.
He points a knife at the shoebox.
We are looking over the shoulder of a broad-shouldered man in a cream-colored suit and a shirt with powder-blue collar.
He is digging into a huge plateful of steak and eggs.
Sensing something, he looks up, cocks his head, and then slowly turns to look back.
He thus reveals a cream-colored eyepatch with powder-blue trim; his good eye is looking intently off - at Everett and Delmar, who continue arguing, out of earshot.
The waitress has just arrived for their order.
Everett gives her an ingratiating laugh.
He ostentatiously fans some of his money.
Watching Everett fan his money.
The big man stops chewing and slowly raises his napkin to his lips to give them a dainty pat.
The big man appears as she leaves.
Big Dan chuckles as he draws up a chair.
Everett rises and digs in his pocket.
As the three men start to move off, Big Dan gives Delmar a tilt of the head and a crinkling smile.
Pappy O'Daniel sits smoking a cigar, nursing a glass of whiskey, and soliciting the counsel of his overweight retinue.
Pappy narrows his eyes at him, wondering what he's getting at.
Pappy whips off his hat and slaps at Junior with it.
He glares around the table.
Eckard grunts as he starts to rise.
Pappy whips him back down with his hat.
As he settles back Eckard looks around the table and helpfully relays.
The car boosted from the general store has been pulled off the road and parked a few yards into a field littered with bluebonnets and rimmed with moss-dripping oak.
Everett, Delmar and Big Dan sit on a blanket around a large picnic hamper.
Big Dan is just sucking the last piece of chicken off a bone.
He tosses the bone over his shoulder, belches, and sighs.
Delmar is pleased and embarrassed.
He rises to his feet and tosses down his napkin.
He reaches up and with one hand easily rips a stout limb off a tree.
He casually strips its twigs.
He swings at Delmar who staggers back with a grunt.
Everett wears a puzzled smile.
Delmar, though stunned, is faster to size things up.
He charges Big Dan and wraps his arms around him.
Big Dan rears back and whacks at his head.
Everett is still puzzled, but willing to be instructed.
Big Dan walks awkwardly over to Everett with Delmar still attached to him like a hunting dog locked on to a bear.
Big Dan takes a break from whacking at Delmar to deliver a blow to Everett.
The blow catches Everett on the chin and sends him reeling.
Big Dan bear hugs Delmar and tosses him away.
He whacks Everett into a semi-conscious heap and then paws through his pockets.
He walks over to Delmar who is on the ground moaning, and kicks him several times.
He takes Delmar's shoebox and flips off the top.
Inside is a bed of straw with the toad resting on it.
He pokes around the straw with his finger; nothing else inside.
Delmar, moaning, looks blearily up through swollen eyes.
Big Dan has the toad in his enormous fist.
Delmar moans through cracked and bloody lips.
He squeezes the frog, crushing it, and tosses it away against a tree.
He climbs in.
The car belches and pops and toodles off down the road.
Delmar staggers to his feet and stumbles over to the carcass of the frog, weeping.
His arms, stretched high over his head, are tied to a tree limb.
His interrogator wields a bullwhip.
Another lash, another scream.
A third man walks into the torchlight, a hound drooling at his heels.
He is Cooley, the sheriff with mirrored sunglasses whom we remember from previous barn confrontations.
The two men acknowledge by backing away from Pete.
and then the accelerating pitter- patter of arriving rain.
Cooley looks up.
He looks back down at Pete.
He shrugs, looks off.
Looking up, into black: a rope is tossed up - it recedes out of the torchlight into black night - and then drops back down into the light, a noose bouncing at its end.
The two henchmen fit the noose over Pete's neck.
Delmar doggedly shakes his head.
We distantly hear picks ringing and male chanting.
Hollow- eyed, Everett tries to convince himself as much as Delmar.
His voice trails away as he looks out at the road.
They are passing a line of chained men in prison stripes and duck-billed caps wielding pickaxes and shovels at the side of the road.
As he stares at the line of men Everett tries to pick up his thread.
The prisoners look like phantoms in the heat and dust.
Everett is haunted.
The last man in line swings his pick and, as he grows smaller, looks up.
Everett stares.
Lone and lorn, he returns Everett's slack-jawed stare until heat ripples and the truck's dusty wake dissolve him away.
Everett blinks.
Everett shakes his head as if to clear it.
The truck rattles on.
On a bunting-covered stage a pencil- necked man with round rimless glasses addresses a crowd of rustics.
The pencil-neck is identified on posters as 'Homer Stokes, Friend of the Little Man', and, in life as in the pictures, he shakes a broom over his head.
A midget in overalls stands next to him.
The midget waves his little midget broom in time with Stoke's waves.
He beams amid cheers and then, as three girls in gingham frocks run out to join him.
The oldest girl is about ten.
Everett stomps toward the stage, fighting his way through the crowd.
Puzzled, Delmar follows.
A man in a straw boater joins them.
Everett sniffs and, catching a scent, squints.
With this he takes a wild swing which Waldrip easily eludes.
Waldrip adapts a Marquess of Queensbury stance and prances about, delivering stinging punches to the nose of a stunned and outclassed Everett.
Its glass doors swing open and Everett is hurled out and bellyflops into the dust of the street.
Romantic music tinnily plays as Delmar and Everett watch, Everett slumped down and angrily hissing.
The theater is dark and quiet.
Everett and Delmar, and the rest of the sparse audience, look restively about.
A man carrying a shotgun enters the auditorium.
He walks halfway down the aisle and stops several rows behind Delmar and Everett.
He scans the theater, then brings a whistle to his lips.
At his whistle the back doors burst open and a line of chained men trot in at double-time.
With much clanking they file into one row and then, that row filled, the one behind it.
They remain silently on their feet.
The first guard and two others who escorted in the convicts scan the theater.
The first guard again blows his whistle.
The two rows of chained men sit.
One more whistle cues the movie to grind back up to speed.
A hissing whisper from behind draws Everett and Delmar's attention.
Everett, jaw hanging open, can only stare, as if at a ghost.
Delmar stares also, but finally brings out another.
Everett's face remains frozen in horrified disbelief, but Delmar finally accepts Pete's corporeal reality.
Pete squints and cocks his head as if to say, What was that? Delmar repeats the whisper slowly and with exaggerated mouth movements.
Pete shakes his head - didn't catch it - and repeats, also overarticulating.
Pappy O'Daniel sits on the veranda of the Governor's Mansion, smoking a cigar and sipping from a glass of bourbon as the evening sun goes down.
Pappy whips at him with his hat.
With his mouth forming an O around his dropping cigar, Pappy looks sadly from one to the other, like a spectator at a particularly boring tennis match.
He reacts quizically to a whispered.
A moment later Everett rises over the lip of his bed.
His face is blacked and he sways as if standing on a boat.
He is raising a large, long-armed, short-nosed pincering tool.
He locks the nose onto Pete's chain and levers the arms.
As his hand chinks free, Pete does not react to his newfound liberty.
Pete's eyes burn into Everett's.
Pete is shaking his head, miserable.
Pete starts weeping.
He hugs a stunned Delmar.
He hugs Everett, who looks profoundly uncomfortable.
Now it is Pete's turn to be stunned.
He and Delmar stare at Everett.
Delmar brightens.
Pete lunges at Everett.
He tackles him and, with his hands wrapped round Everett's throat, the two roll over.
They have rolled through some brush and their bodies are now halfway into a clearing.
They abruptly stop.
Their point-of-view shows a great open field where men in bedsheets parade in formation before a huge fiery cross.
Pete and Everett hastily crabwalk back into the bushes and then push through with Delmar.
The ranks of hooded men, chanting in a high hillbilly wail, intersect and shuffle like a marching band at halftime.
At length they stop in perfect formation, still chanting, to face the Imperial Wizard, who stands in front of the burning cross dressed in a red satin robe and hood trimmed with gold.
An aisle leads through the middle of the formation to the burning cross, before which a gibbet has been erected.
The backmost row has stopped, facing away, only a few yards from the bushes that hide Delmar, Pete and Everett.
As the chanting continues, two Klansmen lead a black man, whom they grasp by either arm, up the aisle toward the gibbet.
It is indeed Tommy Johnson.
Over in the bushes Everett, Delmar and Pete are straightening up and adjusting their appropriated robes and hoods, having disposed of the color guard.
A huge roar - and now the ranks resume their chanting.
The color guard hustles up the aisle to draw up behind the two men leading Tommy to the gibbet.
Everett hisses.
Tommy looks back over his shoulder.
Everett is oblivious to the big man approaching from behind.
Whoosh - arriving Big Dan whips the hood from Everett's head.
Everett is exposed - in blackface.
The chanting abruptly stops.
The crowd is stunned.
Big Dan whips off the other two hoods - Delmar and Pete, in blackface.
Everett, Pete, Tommy and Delmar, bearing the Confederate flag, are retreating across the neutral ground separating the mob of Klansmen from the burning cross.
The mob pursues in full cry.
When the intruders reach the foot of the cross, Delmar turns.
He javelins the flagpole up and out toward the pursuing crowd.
Homer Stokes is mortified.
The crowd gasps and watches, heads tilted back, in silence.
The only sound is the fluttering flag.
Homer Stokes' eyes rise, hesitate and start to fall as the flag reaches its zenith and starts to descend.
We boom down with the hurtling flag toward a sea of upturned white hoods.
Dead in the middle is bareheaded Dan Teague.
His arms are tensed out at his sides like a waiting kick-off returner.
He squints up with his one good eye, judging distance and trajectory.
From somewhere we hear a loud BOINK, as of a wire popping.
The flag flutters.
The crowd is silent.
Big Dan sets and.
WHAP! He snaps his hands up and together.
He has caught the flagpole.
The flag has not touched the ground.
The crowd cheers.
Big Dan looks around, beaming acknowledgement of the cheers.
From somewhere, another BOINK.
As Big Dan's look reaches front again, his smile fades.
His eye tracks up - up- CREEEEEEK! The fiery cross is twisting and starting to fall.
At the foot of the cross Everett snaps its last guy wire with his pincers - BOINK - and the four men sprint off.
WHOOOOSH - As the crowd scatters, the cross descends toward Big Dan, frozen, looking up.
It crashes in a shower of sparks and embers that obliterates Big Dan Teague.
It is pulling up in front of a town hall from which party sounds filter out.
Pappy O'Daniel emerges from the car with his retinue - Eckard, Spivey and Junior.
Delmar sulks.
Everett is stunned.
Headlights play; the men suck back into the alley as a car passes by.
The car tools up to the banquet hall and Homer Stokes emerges with his midget.
The midget tosses his balled-up white hood into the car and both men shrug into their suitcoats.
They too start up the stairs.
Stokes's pace is brisk and the midget hops awkwardly to keep up.
Everett, Pete, Delmar and Tommy are entering through the back door.
The blackface has been scrubbed off but all four now wear long gray beards as disguise, clumsily affixed with spirit gum.
Each is carrying a musical-instrument case.
They elbow past the bustling kitchen help.
Out in the banquet hall Penny and Waldrip sit side-by-side at the head table, surrounded by the Wharvey gals.
Penny and Waldrip are facing the hall with their backs to the stage as the four bearded band members - Everett, Pete, Delmar and Tommy - take their places.
Pappy O'Daniel stands by Waldrip's chair with an arm draped over his shoulder, leaning in to murmur confidentially.
Waldrip sits stiffly erect as he listens, frowning at a spot in space.
Suddenly Waldrip erupts.
She shakes her head vigorously and looks down at her plate as Everett continues pleading to her back.
The band has launched into 'Man of Constant Sorrow', precipitating the huge reaction.
Everett, still trying to get Penny's attention, looks up, stunned at the ovation.
Everett and the boys, still singing, exchange bemused looks.
A shrug, and they lean into the song with a will.
Everett performs an impromptu buck-and-wing, bringing the crowd to new heights of hysteria.
Stokes is also staring at the band, frowning.
The crowd stares at him, stone-faced.
Stokes plows on.
He is hit by a tomato.
Stokes is being pelted by foodstuffs.
Shielding himself with one arm, he bellows into the mike.
An old man in overalls and his wife sit hunched before a crystal set, listening to the tinny voice.
They look at each other wordlessly, look back at the crystal set.
Stokes is almost drowned out by the music as his midget looks apprehensively on.
A disgruntled audience member yanks out the microphone plug; Stokes continues to mouth the inaudible words.
Pappy is considering the crowd.
He drops one arm around Everett, the other around Delmar.
Everett hesitates, not sure where this is going.
The band beams, but Delmar leans into Everett, worried.
He gives Everett a meaningful look, which Everett holds for a considering beat.
Pappy returns a considered appraisal.
The steps of the meeting hall.
People stream out of the concert into the warm summer night.
Everett, now relieved of his beard, is walking down the steps with Penny.
He raises Penny's left hand with his own to display their wedding bands - but Penny's finger is bare.
She walks off.
His attention, and everyone else's, is drawn by a procession on the street below.
A crowd carrying torches jogs behind a man in clanking leg irons and wrist manacles who is being escorted by four policemen trotting alongside, their nightsticks held across their chests in riot-ready formation.
Everett and the rest of the Soggy Bottom Boys descend the last couple of steps to meet the oncoming criminal.
Delmar cries out.
It is indeed George Nelson, grinning and game despite his heavy restraints.
As he passes he turns to call back over his shoulder.
Delmar, smiling, shakes his head as he watches him go.
In the black we hear snuffling, growing louder, closer, slobberier.
We are inside a cupboard.
Its door is being nosed open by an eagerly sniffing snout.
As the door swings wide the inside of the cupboard is washed with light.
It contains, next to a tangled bunch of hairnets, several neatly stacked tins of Dapper Dan pomade.
Everett, Pete, Delmar and Tommy are walking through the woods.
They emerge into a clearing.
The cabin stands before them.
Two shotgun-wielding goons fall in behind the four men and push them forward.
Moving forward reveals, next to the oak tree, three fresh- dug graves.
Standing at the far lip of each grave is a rough pine coffin.
The sheriff with mirrored sunglasses, Cooley, steps off the porch, the drooling hound at his heels.
The goons are shoving them toward the tree.
Three gravediggers, having just finished their work, emerge from the three graves.
They are shirtless black men with bandannas round their necks.
They look to Cooley for guidance.
So too does the drooling hound.
The goons recover their leering grins and resume their happy task.
The gravediggers stand next to the graves, leaning on their shovels.
Sweat glistens on them and trickles down their faces like tears.
Cooley gives the faintest smile.
Delmar bows his head to silently pray.
Everett bows his head as well.
The singing of the gravediggers begins a mournful swell.
The mournfully building song is now supported by a bass more palpable than audible - the song, it seems, rising out of the earth itself.
The rumble is building.
The rumble erupts into a deafening roar.
A wall of water is crashing through the hollow.
It engulfs everything and everybody.
The cabin itself is ripped away; the Soggy Bottom Boys are knocked off their feet and all is noise and confusion.
A silent world.
Everett tumbles in the current in natural slow motion.
Suspended around him are scores of tins of Dapper Dan pomade.
Other objects spin slowly by; framed sepia-tinted family portraits, tree limbs, a fishing pole, an outhouse door, a frying pan, a noose, an old banjo, the wild-eyed frantically paddling bloodhound, a tire with a rope tied around it.
The churning torrent opens into a lowland to become a newly created river, fast-moving but no longer violent.
After a beat of hold on the rippling waters, the surface is broken by the up-bob of a pine coffin.
The coffin floats downstream for a beat and then Everett pops out of the water next to it, gasping for air, shaking his head clear of water, and moving his shoulders to finish freeing himself from the rope round his wrists.
Pete and Delmar emerge nearby, gasping for air.
The men hang onto the coffin, which bears them downstream.
Dazed, they look around.
The inundated valley shows only the occasional roof- or treetop poking out of the newly formed river.
Everett waxes smug.
His voice trails off as he notices something.
A cottonhouse in the middle of the river is submerged to its eaves.
A cow has taken refuge on its roof.
It stands staring at Everett, who returns the stare.
He shakes off the vision and clears his throat.
Tommy has indeed just surfaced downstream, clinging to a half-submerged piece of furniture.
The furniture beneath him begins to rotate in the current and, to keep his head above water, Tommy climbs in place like a hamster on a wheel.
Everett and Penny walk arm in arm, the seven Wharvey gals behind.
The girls sing 'Angel Band' as the grown-ups talk.
He fumbles in his pocket.
Everett shakes his head.
Indignation quickens her pace.
Everett keeps up, and the two are pulling forward out of frame.
We are now on the Wharvey gals who follow in a ragged bunch, still singing.
From somewhere distant, through the song, we can just hear a rhythmic clack of metal on metal.
The second-to-last girl is the oldest; she holds a piece of string along which we travel, still listening to Penny and Everett, off.
The string is given a tug and the little girl waddles out of frame.
A train track is thus revealed in the distance.
The blind seer pumps the car along the distant track, singing harmony under the Wharvey gals' receding voices.
He turns, to see an extremely pretty young woman gazing adoringly at him while they're jostled and shoved.
His eyes light up.
JUREK pushes in beside them and takes her arm.
Jurek, pulling Dorota, fights his way down the stairs.
And he, too, is carried with the flow into the lobby.
Debris everywhere.
Szpilman fights to get to the main door, when another bomb explodes, filling the air with dust and debris, obscuring him and everyone else.
The Szpilman family in panic: coming and going out of rooms, packing clothes and belongings into open suitcases and a trunk in a comfortable, tastefully furnished bourgeois apartment, the living room lined with books, paintings and boasting a boudoir grand, silver platters and candlesticks.
He sits by the radio set, ear to the speaker, trying to tune to a station.
Father, holding a silver-framed photograph, crosses to Mother.
He goes into his room.
She can barely control her tears and hurries into the kitchen just as the front door opens and Szpilman enters, looks round bemused by the activity.
Mother dashes out of the kitchen.
She starts to look.
The others continue to bustle and pack.
They gather round.
Henryk hits the set.
Father pours liqueur into glasses.
The family are seated around the dining table, having just finished a meal.
The table groans with the remains of the dinner.
They all clink glasses and drink.
A column of German Soldiers, led by an officer on horseback, march into view.
On the sidewalk of the street, with its buildings in ruins, smoke still rising, stand onlookers, including Szpilman and Henryk, and a little behind them, Father, craning to see.
They watch, expressionless, as the Germans march past.
Regina is opening and closing the window, examining the frame with her fingers.
At the other end, Father sits counting a small stack of notes and coins.
Henryk is deep in thought and Szpilman is fiddling with his father's violin.
The apartment has less furniture now and the silver has gone.
All look at the table: it's covered in stains and the veneer is coming away at one end.
It snaps, revealing bare wood beneath.
They start to hide the things.
Szpilman is on the public telephone, waiting for someone to answer his call.
Szpilman and Dorota stroll along a tree-lined street with bombed-out buildings and rubble.
She flicks admiring, almost loving glances at him as they walk and talk.
And he is smiling, touched by her.
She's embarrassed.
She begins to laugh.
They become almost helpless, holding on to each other.
Amidst their laughter, he takes her hand and kisses it.
The family are gathered around the table, listening to Father reading from the newspaper.
Silence, each locked in their own thoughts.
Father, wearing the Star of David armband, walks slowly along, carrying a string bag containing potatoes and carrots, his eyes fixed on the pavement as if his thoughts are a million miles away.
He passes two GERMAN OFFICERS.
They stop.
Father stops, turns fearfully and approaches the Germans.
I German Officer cracks him hard across the face, catching his ear.
Father reels, collects himself as best he can and starts to shuffle on -.
Father steps off the pavement and walks in the gutter.
Father walks on.
Szpilman composing at the piano.
He plays, makes adjustments with a pencil to the manuscript, plays again.
Halina, enters with a newspaper.
She hands him the paper.
He looks at it.
His expression darkens.
A map of the proposed Jewish area: two distinct districts, one large, one smaller.
She looks over his shoulder and reads.
As she does so, the door of Henryk's room opens and he stands leaning in the doorway, watching, as if amused.
Szpilman gazes at the map, horrified.
He laughs but they're disturbed by a sound from another room, the sound of crying.
They look at each other puzzled, then Halina opens a door and looks in.
Szpilman and Henryk join her.
Father is asleep but Mother is sitting on the bed, holding a purse, crying.
Halina sits beside her, puts an arm round her.
Mother opens the purse to reveal a crumpled note.
She weeps.
Halina tries to comfort her.
Szpilman and Henryk watch.
Hands on the piano keyboard.
Podgy, hairy hands with dirty nails.
They play an octave, harsh, toneless, with straight fingers.
The hands belong to Mr Lipa, a dealer, early fifties.
He sits at the piano, now examining the lacquer.
Regina stands in the bow, watching him.
Henryk is at the table, also watching intently.
Szpilman sits apart, aloof, his back to the piano and to Mr Lipa.
Henryk suddenly makes a lunge for him, grabs hold of him, a rough struggle takes place and during it Mother and Father appear at their bedroom door to watch, appalled.
Henryk subsides, glowering at him.
A great column of Jews of all ages make their way towards the area that will become the ghetto.
On foot, on bicycles, on horse-drawn platforms, some pushing prams loaded with belongings.
A great moving mass of humanity.
They're watched on either side of the street by Poles.
On a horse-drawn platform, the Szpilmans with their belongings.
All wear armbands.
Szpilman, Halina and Henryk walk beside the platform with Mother, Father and Regina seated on it.
Szpilman catches sight of someone among the onlookers, smiles and pushes through the crowd to Dorota, close to tears.
He smiles and runs to catch up with his family.
He looks back, but Dorota is lost to sight and the procession continues on its way.
Two rooms on the third floor: a living room and a kitchen.
The Szpilmans are unpacking their belongings in silence.
Father pauses for a moment to take stock.
They all go to the window and look out.
Their POV - the street.
Further along, men are building a wall across the street.
Slush underfoot.
Great activity.
People selling shoes, clothes, carpets, curtains, food.
A woman offers cakes under a barbed-wire cover.
Noise, bustle, restless wing and froing.
Among the traders, Henryk, slightly shabbier now, and at his feet a basket with books.
He holds a couple of volumes in his hands, trying to interest passers-by.
Szpilman, also a little shabbier, wends his way through the setters and buyers, the beggars, the passers-by, and reaches Henryk.
Henryk drops the two volumes into the basket, takes a handle one side of the basket, Szpilman the other.
They set off.
As they walk, carrying the basket between them, passing beggars and children asking for food.
Suddenly, a WOMAN appears in front of them, barring their way.
She's brightly rouged with thickly painted eyebrows, dressed in an old green velvet curtain with an unsteady mauve ostrich feather rising from her straw hat.
She wanders on.
Szpilman and Henryk, too, continue on their way.
And as they go.
Meanwhile, a street band begins to play a waltz.
Jewish policemen and German soldiers are clearing a space, shoving Jews out of the way, including Szpilman, Henryk and the nervous man.
Other soldiers are clearing a space.
Two GERMAN SOLDIERS pull out of the crowd a tall woman and a short man and haul them into the cleared space.
The couple dance to the street band's waltz.
At intervals, German soldiers select even more unlikely couples: a fat woman with a painfully thin man, a young boy with an elderly woman, two men, and two cripples.
The German soldiers are, to various degrees, amused.
One of them is almost hysterical with laughter.
The couples dance as fast as they can.
A soldier kicks one of the cripples who can't go on any more.
Then a whistle blows, a policeman stops the traffic, the barrier swings open and people swarm across in both directions.
Szpilman and Henryk enter and stop.
Seated at the table with Mother and Father is a uniformed young man, YITZCHAK HELLER, unusual appearance, a man with red hair and a Hitler moustache.
Heller remains seated, just nods at the brothers.
Awkward silence.
He runs dry.
Benek points to the customer, who makes an imploring gesture to Szpilman.
Szpilman stops playing.
The friend watches the customer intently as he drops the coins one by one onto the marble.
He drops them, puts his ear close and listens.
Two or three he discards, but he smiles when coins make a pure tone, and he keeps them.
Szpilman exchanges looks with a pretty whore, who makes eyes at him.
Satisfied, the customer beams, nods his thanks to Szpilman, who resumes his piano playing.
Szpilman walking.
He passes emaciated children and beggars.
He steps over the corpses lying on the sidewalk.
The wall runs the length of the street, dividing it in half and narrowing it.
Buildings on one side, the wall on the other.
Szpilman walks along.
A piercing whistle from the Aryan side.
Szpilman stops.
Two women appear from a doorway, approach the wall and look up.
Two or three packages come flying over from the Aryan side.
The women grab them and disappear.
Szpilman walks on and sees a child appear through a hole at ground level.
The child wriggles through then turns, pulls a package after him and runs.
Szpilman walks on, hears a noise, looks back to see a SECOND CHILD trying to wriggle through the same hole.
But he's stuck.
Angry German voices from the Aryan side.
Szpilman goes to him, pulls him with all his might but the boy is jammed in the hole.
From the other side of the wall, the sound of an angry German voice and of a boot stamping violently on the boy.
The boy screams in agony.
Szpilman continues to try to pull the boy through.
The sound of the German voice swearing and the dull, crunching noise made by the boot smashing into the boy continues, and with every thud the boy screams in terrible pain.
Szpilman struggles to help the boy whose screams are becoming weaker yet increasingly desperate.
Szpilman pulls his arms and finally manages to get him through.
The boy lies moaning.
His head lolls and his jaw sags.
He is dead.
Szpilman stands quickly and hurries away.
Szpilman approaches the house through a shabby yard.
The noise of a mimeograph machine.
A huge, CHEERFUL MAN with a perpetual cigarette in his mouth.
He laughs and coughs, starts looking through papers.
His room is piled from floor to ceiling with old papers and stuff.
Dark, shabby, run-down.
One of his sons, SYMCHE, is operating the mimeograph machine.
The other, DOLEK, is sorting the sheets as they come off the roller.
MRS. ZYSKIND, holding a toddler, is cooking at a small stove.
A distinctive knock on the door.
Szpilman tenses but Jehuda beams.
To one of his boys: Symche - The boy opens the door to admit a short, neat man, MAJOREK.
He stops, seeing Szpilman.
Szpilman shrugs.
Jehuda loves this too, but his laugh makes him cough appallingly.
The family sit round the small table as Mother comes with a saucepan of soup and starts to serve.
He laughs.
The others look at him.
The family rush to the windows.
A Gestapo vehicle has entered the street and screeched to a halt.
Helmeted, jackbooted SS MEN, led by an NCO, pour out of the vehicle.
The Szpilmans gather at their open window to watch.
Regina turns off the lights before joining them.
They are all terrified.
POV - from Szpilman apartment: the building opposite.
The SS men pouring into the building opposite.
Sound of the jackboots on stairs.
Lights go on floor by floor.
In an apartment directly opposite, a businessman, his wife, three young people and an old man in a wheelchair sit at their dining table.
The SS men burst in, machine pistols at the ready.
The family is frozen with horror, remain seated.
The NCO scans their faces.
The family rise to their feet fast, except for the old man in the wheelchair.
The NCO bears down on him.
The old man in the wheelchair grips the arms of the chair and tries desperately to stand.
But he can't.
Without warning, the SS men seize the chair with the old man in it, carry him out on to the balcony.
Mother SCREAMS, Father shrinks back, Halina comforts him and Regina comforts Mother.
Szpilman's and Henryk 's POV - the apartment opposite: The SS men throw the old man in his wheelchair over the balcony.
He seems to hang in the air for a second then drops out of the chair and out of sight.
But there's a terrible thud as his body hits the pavement and a clatter as the wheelchair follows him.
Mother sobbing.
The others, still horrified.
Then sound of shots, slamming doors, screams, shouts.
Their POV from second window building opposite and street: SS Men herding a couple of dozen prisoners from the building opposite.
People watching from the windows but trying not to be seen.
The headlights of the SS vehicle are switched on and the SS Men are forcing their prisoners to stand in the beam.
The prisoners start to run.
The SS men open fire with a machine gun mounted on the vehicle.
People in the building opposite begin to SCREAM.
The prisoners are being shot down.
They are lifted into the air by the bullets, turn somersaults, fall dead.
One man escapes by running back in the opposite direction, out of the beam of light and is lost to sight for a moment.
The escaping man, a silhouette, out of the light, runs with all his strength, putting distance between himself and the SS.
He starts to scale a wall.
He looks as though he's getting away.
But there's a floodlight on the SS vehicle.
It flares into light, swivels and finds the man.
A volley of shots.
The man drops from the wall, dead.
The SS men get into the vehicle and speed off, driving over the dead bodies.
Szpilman and Henryk stare at the scene, silent, shocked.
The only sounds, the weeping of the people opposite and, nearer, Mother crying softly.
Szpilman, as if in another world, playing the piano.
The cafe is full of customers but the atmosphere is much more subdued than previously, the mood is sombre.
A doorman with a cudgel beats away the beggars from the door as Halina, distraught and out of breath, runs to the cafe entrance.
The doorman lets her in.
Szpilman snaps out of his reverie, seeing, across the heads of the customers, Halina, in a state of great anxiety, beckoning urgently.
Szpilman quickly brings the piece to a close, stands, steps off the platform, threads his way through to Halina.
She's shivering, almost unable to speak.
Szpilman running.
Streets crowded.
Corpses.
Szpilman, sweating, dodges and sidesteps.
Then, suddenly, a woman bars his way.
She's the Feather Woman, brightly rouged, with her thickly painted eyebrows, the unsteady mauve ostrich feather rising from her straw hat.
He tries to dodge past but she grabs his arm.
Szpilman manages to free himself and runs on.
A mob of men in front of the building being herded this way and that by Jewish policemen.
More and more captive men are brought in by the German Schutzpolizei (Shupos).
The mob constantly swelling.
Szpilman reaches the back of the crowd.
Szpilman scans the mob.
The Jewish policemen using batons and whips to herd the men.
Szpilman becomes alert.
He's seen someone he recognises.
Heller, with his red hair and Hitler moustache, wielding a baton, driving men into the building.
With difficulty, Szpilman pushes his way through the mob and gets nearer to Heller.
Heller glances round.
Heller shoves someone aside so that Szpilman can approach, but he continues to beat and manhandle people.
Heller just glares at Szpilman and then moves away.
Szpilman stands, jostled by the crowd, uncertain, forlorn.
Szpilman, keeping to the shadows of the alleyway, watches the front of the building.
Comings and goings.
German Soldiers in evidence.
The mob is smaller now.
Szpilman waits and watches, and then a POOR WOMAN passes, carrying a can wrapped in newspaper followed by a RAGGED OLD MAN, dragging himself along.
He's shivering with cold, his shoes with holes show his purple feet.
The ragged old man suddenly lunges forward and tries to grab the can from the poor woman.
They struggle desperately.
They start to walk.
They walk on.
A wooden bridge has been constructed, linking the small ghetto to the large ghetto.
Few people about, mostly beggars and children.
Szpilman and Henryk climb the stairs of the bridge, but as they reach the bridge itself Henryk stumbles, sinks to his knees.
Szpilman gets hold of him, tries to help him stand.
Szpilman supports Henryk, helps him towards the back of the cafe.
Henryk, finishing a bowl of soup and a piece of bread, sits at a worktop with Szpilman and Benek.
The kitchen is small and busy with cooks, waiters, washers-up.
A dense crowd of people crossing the bridge in both directions.
Szpilman, shabby and unshaven, hurries along and meets Jehuda Zyskind coming towards him, accompanied by the small man, Majorek.
Szpilman stops.
They're buffeted by the crowd.
In the street below them, cars, trams, pedestrians and German guards.
The name 'Samuel Szpilman' being written on a certificate.
The clatter of sewing machines.
SCHULTZ, a fat, sweaty German is filling out the form at his desk.
Majorek beside him, standing, chatting to him and having a quiet laugh.
In the doorway, Szpilman and Father.
The small office is on an upper level with a window looking down on the factory floor where Jewish men and women are hard at work on sewing machines making the terrible clatter.
Schultz stamps the certificate, hands it to Majorek, who gives it to Father.
A great mass of agitated people crossing only one way: from the small ghetto to the large ghetto, carrying their belongings.
A German film crew records the scene.
They struggle across the bridge.
A truck backing up.
The tail-gate is opened to reveal a huge load of furniture, linen, clothing, mirrors, carpets, bedclothes.
Three Jews inside the van start to unload the stuff, dumping it in the yard.
Other Jews stand ready to start sorting the load, among them the Szpilman family.
Each has their allotted task: Szpilman and Henryk sort out carpets, Father mirrors, Regina linen, Halina and Mother, clothing.
The sounds of trains not far off.
They carry the stuff into the warehouse.
Szpilman and the others bring their piles of things into the warehouse, which is crammed with similar objects, an Aladdin's cave.
The activity continuous.
A large room with an improvised partition of blankets to separate the men from the women.
Three-tiered bunks.
On the men's side, Father is on the upper bunk, Henryk on the lower.
Then a volley of shots, German voices shouting.
Szpilman slips off his bunk, hurries to the door, opens it and comes face to face with a German NCO and soldiers.
The NCO cracks Szpilman across the face, turns and goes.
Szpilman retreats into the room, his nose bleeding.
The women are watching from behind the blankets, but Mother hurries towards Szpilman.
She wipes his nose.
Still quite dark.
The Szpilmans and about twenty others lined up under lights shining on them from a couple of German vehicles.
The NCO goes along the line, making a selection, using his pistol to prod people into moving.
When he gets to the Szpilmans he selects Henryk and Halina.
Then, he turns to those who are left.
The NCO turns his pistol on the young woman and shoots her through the head.
He marches off while she lies on the ground with blood spurting out of her.
The partition has been pulled aside.
People, including the Szpilmans, are dressing or dressed, packing up their belongings.
Sounds of shots, screams, shouts, a piercing whistle.
Hot, fine summer's day.
Jews, among them Szpilman, Mother, Regina and father, clutching their meagre belongings, walk towards wooden gates and come to a halt.
Jewish policemen approach and order the people about, pushing and shoving them into line.
The gates are opened.
They shuffle forward.
Szpilman, Mother, Regina and Father, with others, enter through one of the gates, which closes on them.
They pause for a moment to take in their new surroundings.
People walk up and down.
A young man, beside her, whispers to her, but she does not seem to take in what he's saying.
Her cries continue at intervals.
The sound of trucks.
Everyone looks towards the gates.
More Jews are being unloaded from trucks and are marched through the gates.
Mothers, children, old people, begging, most of them holding papers.
The sun high, blazing.
Szpilman is wandering around, occasionally greeting people.
The place is crowded now, packed.
Old people lying down, exhausted, impossible to tell whether some of them are alive or dead.
Women carrying dehydrated children drag themselves from group to group.
One WOMAN approaches Szpilman.
Szpilman shakes his head sadly.
The woman with child wanders off to another group.
EHRLICH, haranguing Father.
Another man, Grun, joins in.
A loud cry from Mother.
Regina and Szpilman also call and wave.
Henryk and Halina struggle through to them.
Halina falls into Mother's arms and they hug.
Mother comforts her.
Father smiles sadly.
Szpilman stands and stares at her.
The place is now packed to suffocation.
People calling out names, trying to find each other.
The wailing of women and the cries of children.
The Szpilmans sit in the same place, with Henryk sitting a little apart and now reading a small book.
Grun leans across to her.
Halina looks at him in disbelief.
Szpilman takes the book and reads the title page.
The Szpilmans seated on the kerb.
Their attention is caught by a BOY who has a box of sweets on a string round his neck.
And he's setting the sweets, pocketing money.
Father calls to the Sweet Boy and beckons him over.
They search their pockets and handbags, hand over to Father what change they can find.
He, in turn, hands the money to the Sweet Boy, who hands over one caramel and goes on his way.
Then, carefully takes out his penknife and with great care divides the caramel into six pans.
He hands a part to each of the family.
They all exchange a look, an acknowledgement of each other, almost like a toast, and then they chew, slowly, deliberately.
The whistle of a locomotive.
Sound of trucks rattling over the rails.
At once, a sound of great agitation from the Jews in the compound.
The locomotive pulling cattle and goods trucks comes into sight, rolling slowly towards the boundary of the Umschlagplatz and coming to a halt.
A cordon of Jewish policeman and SS guards.
Among the great throng of people, the Szpilmans trudge towards the train.
Szpilman and Halina walking.
A Jewish policeman grabs Szpilman by his collar and pulls him back out of the police cordon.
The rest of the family have reached the next truck to be filled.
A scuffle as Szpilman tries to resist.
Another Jewish policeman shoves him.
Szpilman stumbles, falls to the ground, in front of him the closed ranks of the Jewish policemen's backs.
He stands, runs at the cordon, seeing between their heads, shoulders, Mother, Regina, Henryk and Halina clambering into the trucks.
Father is looking around, bewildered.
Father sees him, takes a step towards him, but stops, smiling helplessly.
He raises his hand and waves, then turns and goes towards the trucks.
Again, Szpilman flings himself at the policemen's shoulders.
Heller turns on him.
Szpilman stands for a moment, confused, terrified.
Then he turns and starts to run.
Szpilman drops to walking pace, makes for the gates.
Workers are pushing carts piled with the bloated corpses that lay against the wall.
Szpilman falls in with them and they pass through the gates.
The doors of the trucks are closed.
The train begins to move.
Szpilman catches his breath by a building.
An SS man and Jewish policeman emerge.
The Jewish policeman is servile, crawling to the German.
He points to the train -.
They laugh as they walk away.
Szpilman turns and stumbles down the empty street.
He begins to weep, loud, agonised sobs, and staggers on.
Szpilman, lost, empty, aimless, tries to catch his breath in the aftermath of his tears.
He wanders forlornly down the street, passing empty buildings with their doors open, windows smashed.
Furniture, torn mattresses and pillows lie scattered.
Feathers fly.
He turns a corner.
Szpilman comes into the courtyard.
He stops, his face blank.
Lying outside the door, the bodies of Jehuda, Mrs. Zyskind, their two sons and the toddler.
Szpilman steps across the bodies.
Papers, pamphlets strewn all over the place.
The mimeograph smashed.
Szpilman enters, stands, surveying the devastation.
Szpilman shuffles along, comes to the cafe.
He goes inside.
A shambles.
Szpilman wanders through the upturned tables, broken chairs.
Stops, looks about.
He turns and makes for the door.
Then he hears an urgent hiss.
He turns sharply and tries to find the source of it.
Now he sees, hiding under the platform, Benek, beckoning to him.
Szpilman hurries over and crawls on his back until he's beside him.
Benek replaces a plank and they are hidden from view.
Thin slivers of light illuminate the two men on their backs in the cramped space.
He can't continue.
Benek nods.
In bright sun, Szpilman and Benek march in a column, four abreast, under the command of two Jewish foremen, guarded by two German policemen.
They are being marched out of the ghetto gates.
Street traders with baskets full of wares, fruit, vegetables, fish, tins of preserves.
Women bargain with them, making purchases.
Lively, colourful.
Dealers in gold and currency calling monotonously.
Again Szpilman tries, but Janina, her profile to him, doesn't see.
He goes back to work.
The German policemen wander over to one of the stalls to buy fruit.
The moment they do so two Jewish workers scamper across to another stall to buy bread.
Szpilman glances across the square: Janina is still at the stall.
He comes to a decision.
He jumps down, is about to dash towards Janina, but stops dead.
Janina is no longer there.
As before, Szpilman and Benek march towards the ghetto gates in the demolition column, four abreast, under the command of the Jewish foremen and guarded by the two German policemen.
A little later: Szpilman again mounting the ramp with a hod full of bricks on his back.
The noise of airplanes overhead.
A swarm of Russian bombers.
Anti-aircraft fire.
Puffs of exploding shells.
The workers look up.
So does Szpilman and, as he does so, the bricks slide off his hod, crashing to the ground below.
An SS man, ZICK-ZACK (his nickname), with a whip, approaches Szpilman.
Szpilman goes to him.
Enraged, Zick-Zack grabs him by the hair and presses his head hard between his thighs and then beats him mercilessly.
After a dozen or so strokes, Szpilman falls forward and lies in the dirt.
Zick-Zack nods, satisfied.
Two Poles, without armbands, one of them Bartczak, drag him away.
The store, a wooden hut, contains wood, nails, tools, paint, metal brackets.
Szpilman makes a record in a ledger of the tools each worker takes out on the site.
A worker puts his head into the store.
The Jewish workers start to assemble on the site in haphazard ranks as an SS Captain strides in.
The SS Captain, with much jollity and jokes, hops up on to scaffolding and stands, beaming broadly, surveying the workers.
A glance between Szpilman and Majorek.
He beams; no reaction from the workers.
Rubs thumb and forefinger and leers; still no reaction; his smile vanishes.
Snow.
Majorek pulls a barrow by a rope attached to its shaft across the site.
On the barrow, five sacks.
Majorek pulls the barrow to where Szpilman waits.
Majorek is instantly awake.
Majorek takes the paper but says nothing.
He turns over and goes back to sleep.
Szpilman returns to his bunk.
Szpilman has unloaded the sacks of potatoes into the corner and is kneeling, about to untie the string on the smallest sack.
A sound alerts him.
He looks round.
An SS Lieutenant has entered the stores, sucking his finger, which is bleeding.
Szpilman immediately hurries to a cupboard, finds a First Aid tin, removes a plaster and gives it to the SS Lieutenant.
He indicates the sacks with his chin.
Szpilman tries to untie the string, but he's too terrified and can't manage it.
The SS Lieutenant shoves him out of the way, then takes from his belt a dagger and cuts the string.
The SS Lieutenant reaches in and withdraws a handful of long yellow beans.
He glowers at Szpilman, reaches in again, produces a handful of oatmeal.
He throws the oatmeal in Szpilman's face.
He kicks Szpilman viciously and marches away.
Szpilman catches his breath, then quickly reaches into the bottom of the sack and finds a pistol and ammunition.
He hides them under his clothes.
Freezing cold.
The Jewish workers, with their bundles of potatoes and bread, march back towards the ghetto gates escorted by the two Polish policemen.
He takes a swig of vodka and comes face to face with Szpilman.
He is staring directly at Szpilman with glassy eyes.
Szpilman is terrified, trying as surreptitiously as possible to cover his hidden package with his hands.
A moment of danger.
Zick-Zack grabs Szpilman by the cottar.
He and his comrade find this hilarious; recovering from his laughter.
The column starts to march.
A brief silence, then from the back, a solo voice starts to sing, 'Children of Warsaw will go to fight!' Szpilman glances back, sees that it's Majorek singing.
Szpilman smiles, Majorek nods.
Szpilman joins in.
Now, so do the others.
They march on, singing lustily.
Szpilman lies in a steaming bath, eyes closed, as though he's in a trance.
A gentle knock on the door and Bogucki slips in with some clothes.
He gazes at Szpilman, whose eyes remain closed.
Bogucki holds up a towel.
Szpilman lifts himself out of the bath and dries himself.
The ceramic stove.
Szpilman's ghetto clothes, torn into strips, are being stuffed into it and burned.
Janina shoves the strips of clothes into the stove.
Szpilman, now wearing Bogucki's suit and clean-shaven, watches the clothes burn while he spoons hot soup into his mouth.
Janina adds the last strip of clothing.
A rickshaw carrying Szpilman and Bogucki travels along the dark streets.
The rickshaw comes to a halt outside a store.
The moment it stops the shutters of the store are raised and Bogucki escorts Szpilman to the door, then quickly returns to the rickshaw, which moves off fast.
GEBCZNYSKI shakes hands with Szpilman, ushers him in and then pulls down the shutter.
Gebczynski's store is for sanitary furnishings and supplies: lavatories, basins, baths, taps etc.
He leads the way and as he goes he picks up a cushion from a chair and a blanket.
Szpilman follows.
Gebczynski leads Szpilman down the stairs.
Dark, shadowy.
Shelves with taps, washers, pipes.
Gebczynski leads the may to a particular set of shelves.
He puts aside the cushion and blanket, then starts to push at the shelves.
Slowly, the shelves move to reveal a secret compartment.
He helps Szpilman into the compartment.
He hands over the cushion and the blanket to Szpilman; then, putting his back to the shelves and his feet against the wall, he pushes the shelves back into place so that Szpilman is now hidden.
In the cramped space, Szpilman is not quite able to stretch full out.
With difficulty, he puts the cushion behind his head, starts to cover himself with the blanket but stops, seeing something.
Szpilman and Gebczynski wait with others at the stop as the tram trundles towards them and comes to a halt.
As they board.
Gebczynski and Szpilman apprehensive, push through the rear section, packed with Poles, seated and standing, until they reach a chain and a sign.
In the German section, only three or four passengers.
Some read newspapers, others stare into space or out of the windows, but never looking at the Poles.
Szpilman tries to appear as inconspicuous as possible.
The tram rumbles on its way.
Gebczynski and Szpilman come up the stairs to the landing and to a door.
Gebczynski unlocks the door and they go in.
A charmingly furnished bed-sitting room with a comfortable divan.
Gebczynski leads the way in.
Szpilman glances around, goes to the window, looks out.
He can see a section of ghetto wall below.
Beyond it, inside the ghetto, a narrow street leading to deserted buildings.
Gebczynski comes up behind him.
He closes the cupboard.
Gebczynski makes for the front door, stops.
He hands over a scrap of paper, shakes Szpilman's hand and goes quickly.
Alone, Szpilman stands, lost for a moment.
Then, he takes off his shoe and stuffs the scrap of paper into it.
While he does so, his eyes light on the divan bed.
He goes to it, slips off his other shoe and lies down, testing the divan's springiness with his whole body.
He smiles beatifically.
He shuts his eyes and is instantly asleep.
Szpilman still fast asleep.
Voices wake him.
He opens his eyes.
He's not certain where he is for a moment.
He hears the voices again, coming from the adjoining flat.
Intrigued, he rises, goes closer to the watt, puts his ear against it, listens.
Szpilman is enjoying himself.
Then the sound of a piano being played with great feeling but a lot of wrong notes.
The piano continues for a moment, but suddenly stops.
A door slams.
She hands him the parcel.
He goes into the small kitchen and unpacks the contents while Janina gazes out of the window.
she turns to look again out of the window.
The building burning.
Corpses lie scattered on the pavement.
The Germans stand about chatting and laughing.
A handful of Jewish fighters are lined up and shot.
Blazing sun.
The ghetto buildings now burned-out shells, the street empty.
Autumn leaves falling and gusting in the wind.
Szpilman gazes out.
Snow.
Ice on the windows.
The sound of the key in the door.
Szpilman turns as the door opens and Gebczynski enters, distraught.
Whispered, at speed.
Gebczynski takes out a cigarette and lights it.
While he does so.
And he goes.
Szpilman listens to his footsteps clattering down the stairs.
He sees the cigarette stub, takes it, lights it, coughs, smokes awkwardly.
Szpilman hears a car engine and the screech of brakes.
He tenses.
German voices shouting and their heavy footsteps on the stairs.
He goes to the window, opens it.
He gets a chair, places it sideways in front of the window to make a step.
He's working out how best to throw himself out.
He leans against the wall near the door and waits.
Slamming of doors, German shouts, a scream.
Szpilman steels himself, ready to jump.
Again footsteps on the stairs, but this time descending.
A door slams.
He cautiously goes to the window and looks out.
In the street below, he sees SS men escorting two prisoners and shoving into a car.
The car speeds off.
The street is empty.
Snow.
Howling wind.
Szpilman lies on the divan.
He is cold, unshaven, hair filthy and long.
He manages to rise.
A mess.
Szpilman goes into the kitchen.
From a bread tin he takes a small, flat greaseproof paper parcel and unwraps it.
He continues to try to cut the bread, when there's a loud hammering on the front door.
Szpilman stiffens.
The hammering continues as Szpilman stumbles into the room, looks around, confused, not knowing what to do.
From the other side of the door female voices, words indistinct, and then.
He is galvanised into action, puts on a crumpled jacket, grabs his tattered coat and scarf, collects up a few of his things, stuffs them into a paper bag.
The hammering stops.
Szpilman cautiously approaches the door, listens, then opens it quietly and slips out.
He slips out of the flat, goes to the stairs and stops dead.
KITTY, young and fierce, stands on the stairs, blocking his way.
Szpilman hesitates; she shouts more loudly.
On various floors, doors open, tenants put their heads out to see what's going on.
Summoning all his strength, Szpilman makes a dash for it, pushing past Kitty.
Szpilman clatters down the stairs, reaches the ground-floor landing.
Another woman tries to bar his way but he pushes past her and out of the house.
Heavy snow.
Szpilman stumbles into the street and runs.
He darts down a side street.
Szpilman lurches into the narrow street.
He stops, almost collapses, but manages to keep hold of himself.
He leans up against a wall.
He removes a shoe and takes out the scrap of paper Gebczynski gave him.
He reads it.
Szpilman drags himself along, trudging through snow and slush.
He comes to a villa.
He goes to the front door, rings the bell and waits.
The door opens and Dorota stands there.
She is pregnant.
They stand for a moment staring at each other.
Szpilman follows Dorota into the living room.
Szpilman sits down slowly.
Awkward silence.
He gazes at her.
She looks away.
He nods.
Brief silence.
Again, the awkward silence.
The door opens and Michal Dzikiewicz enters.
He sees Szpilman and stops.
He shakes hands with Szpilman.
Szpilman, dizzy, leans on the table for support.
He and Dorota look at him.
Szpilman asleep on the sofa.
The sound of a cello.
He opens his eyes.
Listens.
He swings his legs off the sofa, stands, and crosses to a door.
Quietly, he opens it a little.
Szpilman and his POV - another room.
Dorota, partially turned away from him, plays Bach on the cello.
Szpilman watches her and listens.
A padlock being unlocked.
Then, a key is inserted into the Yale lock, turned, and the door opens.
Michal and Szpilman on the landing, enter the flat.
A large room, sparsely furnished but with an upright piano and a bed.
Michal carries a bag of provisions and puts them on a table while Szpilman goes immediately to the window and looks out.
There are views of the city, but in the street below, opposite, is a hospital and, on the corner, a building flying a Nazi flag and guarded by a sentry, standing at his sentry-box.
Michal comes up behind Szpilman.
Michal makes for the door.
He nods and goes.
The sound of the padlock closing.
Szpilman takes in the room.
He sees the piano, is still for a moment, then goes to it.
He sits on the piano stool and adjusts its height.
He opens the lid.
A cloth covers the keys.
He removes the cloth.
He gazes lovingly at the keyboard.
He flexes his fingers.
Then, without touching the keys, his fingers floating just above them, he plays.
Passionately.
Snow falling.
Szpilman alert, hearing the padlock being unlocked and then iheYdle.
The door opens and Michal enters, accompanied by a man, aged about thirty, Szalas, confident, a little brash.
In whispers.
Szalas and Szpilman shake hands.
Szalas produces a quarter bottle of vodka, thumps the back of the bottle so that the cork flies out.
He finds glasses and pours.
He gives the others their vodka.
Szalas shrugs, finds the vodka, pours two glasses.
He unwraps the package to reveal sausage and bread.
He takes a bite of sausage, chewing deliberately, slowly.
Szalas goes to the window, looks out.
Szpilman thinks for a moment, then takes off his wristwatch, hands it to Szalas.
Szalas pockets the watch, makes for the door, stops.
He grins, downs Szpilman's vodka, gives a mock salute and goes.
Hie padlock is locked on the other side.
Sunshine floods in through the windows.
Szpilman lies inert on the bed, weak, starving, ill.
The sound of the padlock.
Dorota, no longer pregnant, and Michal enter, come to the bed.
In whispers.
Szpilman barely has strength to open his eyes and focus on them.
He mutters incoherently.
She starts for the door.
He leaves.
The padlock sound.
Dorota goes to the kitchen, wets a towel, comes back to the bed, kneels it, places the towel on Szpilman's brow.
He focuses on her, smiles.
Szpilman suddenly winces with pain.
She looks at him; barely audible.
The Doctor and Michal leave his line of vision.
Szpilman looking down from the fourth-floor window.
Peaceful.
A few pedestrians.
An everyday atmosphere.
At the far end, at the T-junction with a main road, a tram rumbles down the street and comes to a halt, disgorging passengers on the far side and so out of sight.
The tram continues on its way, now revealing the few passengers who alighted 'women, an old man with a stick.
Last, three young Poles, carrying long objects wrapped in newspaper.
One of the men looks at his watch, glances around, then suddenly kneels and puts the package he's carrying to his shoulder.
The sound of rapid firing, which makes the newspaper at the end of the packet glow to reveal the barrel of a machine gun.
His two companions have also put their packages to their shoulders and begin shooting, all aiming their fire at the Schutzpolizei building.
The sentry is hit and falls in front of his box.
As if these young men have given a signal, now from all over the city comes the sound of gunfire.
The pedestrians have scattered except for the old man, gasping for breath, hobbling on his walking stick, who eventually manages to disappear inside a building.
Rifle and machine-gun fire from the Schutzpolizei building.
The firing intense.
The three young Poles manoeuvre to the corner opposite the Schutzpolizei and toss grenades into the building.
A battle raging.
The Germans firing from the hospital.
Grenades thrown, machine-gun fire exchanged.
Szpilman watching from his window, looks in the opposite direction and sees smoke rising.
When he turns back to look towards the T-junction, he sees a Panzerfaust anti-tank rocket firer poking out from a window in the next-door building but on the floor below.
The Panzerfaust fires.
The shell hits the hospital.
The city in flames.
Sound of firing becoming sporadic, less intense.
Isolated explosions.
Szpilman, lying on the bed, staring at the ceiling.
The interior of the Schutzpolizei building burnt to cinders.
A horse-drawn cab rounds a corner and clatters down the street.
The horse-drawn cab clatters out of his sight.
He is about to draw back when he sees, directly beneath him, a man and woman walking with their hands in the air.
Then, a German soldier, pointing his rifle at their backs, appears.
Suddenly, the man and woman begin to run.
The man turns and disappears.
The woman also turns, but the German soldier drops to one knee and fires.
The woman clutches her stomach, drops slowly to her knees and collapses on the street in an awkward kneeling position, and that's how she remains.
Szpilman watches, aghast.
Then, he hears voices outside his door, shouts, footsteps, panic.
He runs to his front door and listens.
More clatter of footsteps.
Footsteps descending stairs, more shouts, and.
Szpilman just stares at him.
He studies Szpilman for a moment, then with a nod orders him to follow.
Szpilman picks up the tin and follows.
Szpilman follows the German Captain through a double door, hanging off its hinges, into a room with a broken table in the centre, what once was the dining room.
And then through another set of doors.
The German Captain's boots echo.
They come into a spacious room.
Faint moonlight filters through the large windows.
Fallen masonry and broken glass.
A couple of chairs.
And a grand piano in the corner.
The German Captain points at the piano.
Szpilman hesitates, then limps to the piano, puts down the tin, and opens the lid.
He turns and drags one of the chairs over and sits.
The German Captain stands and watches.
Szpilman glances surreptitiously at his hands, and then he plays Chopin.
The German Captain listens, expressionless.
The pale moonlight shows him to be a handsome, elegant man.
Szpilman finishes playing.
The German Captain stares at Szpilman.
After a moment.
Szpilman nods.
Szpilman just stares at him.
Szpilman hesitates, takes the tin and then shuffles past the German Captain towards the door.
Szpilman and the German Captain enter.
The German Captain takes out a flashlight, sees the ladder in place, leading up to the loft.
Szpilman climbs the ladder, squeezes into the loft and looks down at the German Captain, who shines his light on him.
Szpilman shows him the tin.
He goes quickly.
Szpilman opens the package, finds bread and marmalade.
Then he finds a tin-opener.
Snow.
The Germans are evacuating the villa.
Men carry out boxes, filing cabinets, desks, papers and load them into trucks.
He opens the trapdoor to see the German Captain in the attic, carrying a package.
Szpilman faces the German Captain.
He hands Szpilman the package.
Szpilman opens it to find inside several loaves of bread.
Szpilman shivers with cold.
The German Captain takes off his coat and gives it to him.
Freezing weather.
Empty streets.
Then the sound of recorded music, as a car, with a loudspeaker and a Polish national flag, comes into view, the Polish national anthem blaring out from the speaker.
Szpilman, wearing the German Captain's coat and under the eiderdown, hears the strange sound of the music, which he recognises.
He's astonished, puzzled.
He comes to a decision and starts to leave.
Cautiously, in his German military overcoat, Szpilman trots down the staircase into the empty hall.
He goes to the front door, opens it a crack and cautiously goes out.
Szpilman looks around, hearing the car loudspeaker indistinctly.
She runs, yelling, towards the field kitchen.
So does the man.
Szpilman stands and stares, then sees one of the soldiers cock his rifle and fire at him.
Szpilman runs, the firing continuing.
Szpilman bolts into the doorway of a ruined building.
He peers out to see Polish soldiers beginning to surround the ruined building, firing shots, lobbing in a grenade or two.
The Polish soldiers: Two of the officers stand near the entrance, hearing Szpilman's shouts.
The Polish officers confer briefly in whispers.
He stands glowering at them, then sees a POW rise from a group, wretched, shabby, unshaven.
It's the German Captain, uniform tattered, a wreck.
He comes to the barbed wire.
A RUSSIAN GUARD, inside the compound, approaches, grabs hold of the German Captain.
The German Captain is being bundled away by the guard, who aims a kick at him.
The German Captain shouts out his name but it's unintelligible.
The German Captain and the guard have disappeared.
Lednicki stands for a moment, then turns and goes.
Szpilman playing the piano.
He looks something like his former self, fairly well dressed and groomed.
He glances towards the glass booth and sees Lednicki with the technicians.
He smiles.
Lednicki nods, smiles back.
Szpilman and Lednicki looking around an empty field.
Lednicki goes.
Szpilman stands, looking around the empty field.
He is filled with sadness.
He sits.
He closes his eyes and put his face to the sun.
Szpilman plays Chopin's Piano Concerto No 1 with full orchestra and conductor.
He plays superbly.
The music is glorious.
The boy and girl laugh, their laughter putting a pause in there, back and forth.
A WAITRESS comes by with a pot of coffee.
The Waitress pours the Young Woman's coffee.
The Young Man lights up another cigarette.
He calls to the Waitress.
Then looks to his girl.
The Waitress comes by, pouring him some more.
The Young Woman scans the restaurant with this new information.
She sees all the PATRONS eating, lost in conversations.
The BUSBOYS going through the motions, collecting dishes.
A smiles breaks out on the Young Woman's face.
And with that, Pumpkin and Honey Bunny grab their weapons, stand up and rob the restaurant.
In the front seat are two young fellas one white, one black both wearing cheap black suits with thin black ties under long green dusters.
Jules is behind the wheel.
They CLOSE the trunk.
Vincent and Jules, their long matching overcoats practically dragging on the ground, walk through the courtyard of what looks like a hacienda-style Hollywood apartment building.
We TRACK alongside.
They enter the apartment building.
Vincent and Jules walk through the reception area and wait for the elevator.
The elevator arrives, the men step inside.
The elevator doors open, Jules and Vincent exit.
STEADICAM in front of Jules and Vincent as they make a beeline down the hall.
Jules stops Vincent.
Jules looks at him a long moment he's been set up.
He starts walking down the hall.
Vincent, smiling, walks a little bit behind.
They move a little away from the door, facing each other, still whispering.
Making a gun out of his finger and placing it to his head.
Jules just looks at him.
THREE YOUNG GUYS, obviously in over their heads, sit at a table with hamburgers, french fries and soda pops laid out.
One of them flips the LOUD BOLT on the door, opening it to REVEAL Jules and Vincent in the hallway.
The two men stroll inside.
The three young caught-off-guard Guys are: MARVIN, the black young man, who open the door, will, as the scene progresses, back into the corner.
BRETT, a white, preppy-looking sort with a blow-dry haircut.
Vincent and Jules take in the place, with their hands in their pockets.
Jules is the one who does the talking.
Jules grabs the burger and take a bite of it.
Vincent moves to the bed, reaches underneath it, pulling out a black snap briefcase.
Vincent looks up at Jules.
Closing the case.
As Brett talks, Jules takes out his gun and SHOOTS Roger BLOWING him out of his chair.
Vince smiles to himself.
He's not crying or whimpering, but he's so full of fear, it's as if his body is imploding.
Brett can't say a word.
Brett still can't speak.
Jules SNAPS, SAVAGELY TIPPING the card table over, removing the only barrier between himself and Brett.
Brett now sits in a lone chair before Jules like a political prisoner in front of an interrogator.
Jules takes his .and PRESSES the barrel HARD in Brett's cheek.
Brett is regressing on the spot.
Jules' eyes go to Vincent, Vincent smirks, Jules rolls his eyes and SHOOT Brett in the shoulder.
The two men EMPTY their guns at the same time on the sitting Brett.
We FADE UP on BUTCH COOLIDGE, a white, prizefighter.
Butch sits at a table wearing a red and blue high school athletic jacket.
Talking to him OFF SCREEN is everybody's boss MARSELLUS WALLACE.
A hand lays an envelope full of money on the table in front of Butch.
Butch picks it up.
Vincent Vega looks really cool behind the wheel of a cherry red Chevy Malibu convertible.
The front entrance is unlocked, revealing the Dapper Dan fellow on the inside: ENGLISH DAVE.
Vincent, carrying the black briefcase from the scene between Vincent and Jules, steps inside.
English Dave SLAMS the door in our faces.
The spacious club is empty this time of day.
English Dave crosses to the bar, and Vince follows.
Butch shakes hands with a huge figure with his back to us.
The huge figure is the infamous and as of yet still UNSEEN Marsellus.
English Dave smiles to himself.
English Dave puts Vince's coffee in front of him.
Butch does a slow turn toward Vincent.
Butch turns his body to Vincent, when.
Vincent walks forward OUT OF FRAME, never giving Butch another glance.
Vincent hugging and kissing the obscured figure that is Marsellus.
Butch makes the wise decision that is this asshole's a friend of Marsellus, he better let it go for now.
Butch is snapped out of his ass-kicking thoughts.
He pays English Dave and walks out of the SHOT.
A woman who appears to have a fondness for earrings.
Both of her ears are pierced five times.
She also sports rings in her lips, eyebrows and nose.
Jody, Vincent and a young woman named TRUDI sit at the kitchen table of a suburban house in Echo Park.
Vince has been letting this conversation go through one ear and out the other, until that last remark.
Jody looks at him and says as if it were the most obvious thing in the world.
Jody continues talking to Trudi, leaving Vincent to ponder the truth of her statement.
Vincent takes out a roll of money that would choke a horse to death.
Vincent takes out his case of the works (utensils for shooting up).
As he cooks his heroin.
Going into Vincent's vein.
Spurting back into the syringe, mixing with the heroin.
Pushing down on the plunger.
Vincent walks toward the house and pulls a note off the door .
Vincent enters on the background.
Video screens are in the background.
Mia's mouth comes toward a microphone.
Vincent turns.
Vincent walks.
Vincent finds the intercom on the wall.
Vincent's Malibu pulls up to the restaurant.
A big sign with a neon figure of a cartoon surly cool cat jackrabbit in a red windbreaker towers over the establishment.
Mia draws a square with her hands.
Dotted lines appear on the screen, forming a sqaure.
The lines disperse.
Buddy exits.
Vincent takes a look around the place.
The YUPPIES are dancing, the DINERS are biting into big, juicy hamburgers, and the icons are playing their parts.
He hands her the rolled smoke.
She takes it, putting it to her lips.
Out of nowhere appears a Zippo lighter in Vincent's hand.
He lights it.
He begins rolling one for himself.
As this time, the SOUND of a subway car fills the diner, making everything SHAKE and RATTLE.
Marilyn Monroe runs to a square vent in the floor.
The entire restaurant applauds.
Buddy comes back with the drinks.
Mia wraps her lips around the straw of her shake.
Vincent smiles.
He takes a sip.
He slides the shake back.
Mia powders her nose by doing a big line of coke off the bathroom sink.
Her head jerks up from the rush.
Vincent digs into his Douglas Sirk steak.
As he chews, his eyes scan the Hellsapopinish restaurant.
Mia comes back to the table.
Pointing at Marilyn in the white dress serving a table.
Then, pointing at a BLONDE WAITRESS in a tight sweater and capri pants, taking an order from a bunch of FILM GEEKS .
Mia and Vincent smile.
Vincent is slow to answer.
Patrons cheer.
Ed Sullivan is with Marilyn Monroe, who holds a trophy.
Marilyn holds the trophy.
Mia holds her hand.
Vincent reacts.
Vincent and Mia walk onto the dance floor, toward Ed Sullivan.
Patrons cheer.
Vincent and Mia walk up to the microphone.
They make hand movements as they dance.
The front door FLINGS open, and Mia and Vincent dance tango- style into the house.
They finish their little dance, laughing.
The two just stand face to face looking at each other.
Mia moves away to attend to both.
Vincent hangs up his overcoat on a big bronze coat rack in the alcove.
Mia moves to her CD player, thumbs through a stack of CDs and selects one: k.d.
The speakers BLAST OUT a high energy country number, which Mia plays air-guitar to.
She dances her way around the room and finds herself wearing Vincent's overcoat
She touches its sleeve.
Her hand hoes in its pocket and pulls out his tobacco pouch.
Like a little girl playing cowboy, she spreads the tobacco on some rolling paper.
Imitating what he did earlier, licks the paper and rolls it into a pretty good cigarette.
Her hand reaches back in the pocket and pulls out his Zippo lighter.
She SLAPS the lighter against her leg, trying to light it fancy-style like Vince did.
What do you know, she did it! Mia's one happy clam.
She triumphantly brings the fat flame up to her fat smoke, lighting it up, then LOUDLY SNAPS the Zippo closed.
The Mia-made cigarette is brought up to her lips, and she takes a long, cool drag.
Her hand slides the Zippo back in the overcoat pocket.
But wait, her fingers touch something else.
Those fingers bring out a plastic bag with white powder inside, the madman that Vincent bought earlier from Lance.
Wearing a big smile, Mia brings the bag of heroin up to her face.
Mia has the unbeknownst-to-her heroin cut up into big lines on her glass top coffee table.
Taking her trusty hundred dollar bill like a human Dust-Buster, she quickly snorts the fat line.
Her head JERKS back.
Her hands go to her nose (which feels like it's on fucking fire), something is terribly wrong.
Vincent dries his hands on a towel while he continues his dialogue with the mirror.
Mia is on all fours trying to crawl to the bathroom, but it's like she's trying to crawl with the bones removed from her knees.
Blood begins to drip from Mia's nose.
Then her stomach gets into the act and she VOMITS.
Vince continues.
Blood and puke are down her front.
And her face is contorted.
Slack-jawed.
Lance puts down his cereal and makes his way to the phone.
Jody, his wife, CALLS from the bedroom, obviously woken up.
Lance CHARGES from the window, out the door to his front lawn.
Vincent is already out of the car, working on getting Mia out.
WE START in Lance's and Jody's bedroom.
Jody, in bed, throws off the covers and stands up.
She's wearing a long tee-shirt with a picture of Fred Flintstone on it.
As she walks in the living room, she sees Vincent and Lance standing over Mia, who's lying on the floor in the middle of the room.
From here on in, everything in this scene is frantic, like a DOCUMENTARY in an emergency ward, with the big difference here being nobody knows what the fuck they're doing.
Lance looks up at Jody.
WE FOLLOW Lance as he runs out of the living room into a.
With a bunch of junk in it.
Lance continues his frenzied search.
Jody calls to LANCE.
As he continues searching, flipping and knocking over shit, Jody appears in the doorway.
Lance spins toward her.
Lance angrily knocks over a pile of shit and leaves the SHOT heading for the living room.
Vincent is bent over Mia, talking softly to her, when Lance reenters the room.
Lance bends down by the black case brought in by Jody.
He opens it and begins preparing the needle for injection.
Vince rips her blouse open.
Jody stumbles back in the room, hanging back from the action.
Vince points to Mia's right breast.
Lance glances over and nods.
As Lance readies the injection, Vincent looks up at Jody.
Jody runs to the desk, opens the top drawer and, in her enthusiasm, she pulls the drawer out of the desk, the contents of which (bills, papers, pens) spill to the floor.
The injection is ready.
Lance hands Vincent the needle.
Jody hurriedly joins them in the huddle, a big fat red magic marker in her hand.
Vincent grabs the magic marker out of Jody's hand and makes a big red dot on Mia's body where her heart is.
Then once you do, push down on the plunger.
Vincent lifts the needle up above his head in a stabbing motion.
He looks down on Mia.
Mia is fading fast.
Vincent's eyes narrow, ready to do this.
Lance, on this knees right beside Vincent, does not know what to expect.
RED DOT on Mia's body.
Needle raised ready to strike.
Jody's face is alive with anticipation.
NEEDLE in that air, poised like a rattler ready to strike.
The needle leaves frame, THRUSTING down hard.
Vincent brings the needle down hard, STABBING Mia in the chest.
Mia's head is JOLTED from the impact.
The syringe plunger is pushed down, PUMPING the adrenaline out through the needle.
Mia's eyes POP WIDE OPEN and she lets out a HELLISH cry of the banshee.
She BOLTS UP in a sitting position, needle stuck in her chest SCREAMING.
Vincent, Lance and Jody, who were in sitting positions in front of Mia, JUMP BACK, scared to death.
Mia's scream runs out.
She slowly starts taking breaths of air.
The other three, now scooted halfway across the room, shaken to their bones, look to see if she's alright.
Mia, still breathing, not looking up at them, says in a relatively normal voice.
She turns around.
Vincent's out of the car, standing on the walkway, a big distance between the two.
Mia smiles.
The two walk toward each other, holding out their hands to shake and shake they do.
Mia lets go of Vincent's hand and silently makes the see-no- evil, hear-no-evil, and speak-no-evil sign with her hands.
Vincent smiles.
Mia giggles.
Vincent turns around.
We're in the living room of a modest two bedroom house in Alhambra, California, in the year BUTCH'S MOTHER, 35ish, stands in the doorway leading into the living room.
Next to her is a man dressed in the uniform of an American Air Force officer.
The CAMERA is the perspective of a five-year old boy.
KOONS steps inside the room toward the little boy and bends down on one knee to bring him even with the boy's eyeline.
When Koons speaks, he speaks with a slight Texas accent.
The Captain pulls a gold wrist watch out of his pocket.
Koons hands the watch to Butch.
A little hand comes into FRAME to accept it.
The old Butch Coolidge is dressed in boxing regalia: trunks, shoes and gloves.
He lies on a table catching a few zzzzzz's before his big fight.
Almost as soon as WE CUT to him, he wakes up with a start.
Shaken by the bizarre memory, he wipes his sweaty face with his boxing glove.
His trainer KLONDIKE, an older fireplug, opens the door a little, sticking his head in the room.
Pandemonium seems to be breaking out behind Klondike in the hallway.
A taxi is parked in a dark alley next to an auditorium.
WE SLOWLY DOLLY toward the parked car.
The SOUND of the CAR RADIO can be heard coming from inside.
A young woman, with Spanish looks, sits parked, drinking a steaming hot cup of coffee out of a white styrofoam cup.
The Sportscasters continue their coverage.
CLICK Esmarelda shuts off the radio.
She takes a sip of coffee, then hears a NOISE behind her in the alley.
She sticks her head out of the car door to see.
A window about three stories high opens on the auditorium- side of the alley.
A gym bag is tossed out into a garbage dumpster below the window.
Then, Butch Coolidge, still dressed in boxing trunks, shoes, gloves and yellow robe, LEAPS to the dumpster below.
ESMARELDA'S REACTION takes in the strangeness of this sight.
Butch, soaking wet, naked except for trunks, shoes and gloves, HOPS in the backseat, SLAMMING the door.
Esmarelda, staring straight ahead, talks to Butch through the rearview mirror.
Butch gets one of his boxing gloves off.
Esmeralda watches in the rearview mirror.
She presses a button and the back window moves down.
Butch tosses his boxing glove out the window, then starts untying the other one.
Esmeralda can't keep quiet anymore.
As he tosses his other glove out the window.
He finished wiping himself down.
He tosses the towel out the window.
Silence, as Butch digs in his bag for a t-shirt.
Butch pulls on his tee-shirt.
Esmarelda bounces in her seat with excitement.
He looks at her license.
We DOLLY around a phone booth as Butch talks inside.
Butch hangs up the phone.
Butch holds up a hundred dollar bill.
Esmarelda's eyes light up.
She goes to take it.
Butch holds it for sometime
He gives her the bill.
Butch flicks the switch back, making the room dark again.
Butch climbs into bed, spooning Fabienne from behind.
When Butch and Fabienne speak to each other, they speak in babytalk.
Fabienne rolls over and Butch gets on top of her.
They kiss.
Butch's hand goes out of frame and starts massaging her crotch.
Fabienne reacts.
Fabienne lies her head back.
Butch continues to massage her crotch.
Butch kisses her on the mouth.
Butch's head goes down out of frame to carry out the oral pleasure.
Fabienne's face is alone in the frame.
She finishes drying her hair and wraps the towel like a turban on her head.
She hands him a towel.
Butch exits the bathroom.
We stay on Fabienne as she brushes her teeth.
Butch keeps on talking from the other room.
Fabienne brushes her teeth.
We watch her for a moment or two, then she remember something.
She walks out of the bathroom to ask Butch a question, only to find him sound asleep in bed.
She looks at him for a moment.
Butch squints down the front of the bed at her, trying to focus.
Fabienne enters the room.
Fabienne laughs.
Fabienne gives Butch a sweet long kiss.
Butch climbs out of bed and starts pulling clothes out of the suitcase that Fabienne brought.
Butch is finished dressing.
As he goes through the suitcase.
By now, Butch is frantically rummaging through the suitcase.
He's now throwing clothes.
Fabienne can hardly speak, she's never seen Butch this way.
Fabienne is crying and scared.
Butch lowers his voice, which only serves to make him more menacing.
He bends down in front of the woman who has sunk to the floor.
Then rises.
Fabienne is still sniffling.
Butch goes to the closet.
Butch puts on his high school jacket.
Rising from the floor.
The little Honda races toward its destination as fast as is little engine will take it.
He has parked his car a couple of blocks from his apartment to check things out before he goes boppin' through the front door.
Butch walks down the alley until he gets to another street, then he discreetly glances out.
Everything seems normal.
More or less the right number of cars in the street.
None of the parked cars appear out of place.
Basically, it looks like normal morning activity in front of Butch's home.
Butch peers around a wall, taking in the vital information.
Butch walks out of the alley and is ready for anything.
He crosses the street and enters his apartment courtyard.
Butch is in the courtyard of his North Hollywood apartment building.
Once again, everything appears normal the laundry room, the pool, his apartment door nothing appears disturbed.
Butch climbs the stairs leading to his apartment, number He steps outside the door and listens inside.
Butch slowly inserts the key into the door, quietly opening it.
His apartment hasn't been touched.
He cautiously steps inside, shuts the door and takes a quick look around.
Butch walks into his modest kitchen, and opens the refrigerator.
Then he goes to the bedroom.
His bedroom is like the rest of the apartment neat, clean and anonymous.
Sure enough, there's the watch just like he said it was: On the bedside table, hanging on his little kangaroo statue.
He walks through the apartment and back into the kitchen.
He opens a cupboard and takes out a box of Pop Tarts.
Putting down the milk, he opens the box, takes out two Pop Tarts and puts them in the toaster.
Butch glances to his right, his eyes fall on something.
What he sees is a small compact Czech Msubmachine gun with a huge silencer on it, lying on his kitchen counter.
This makes the boxer laugh out loud.
As he laughs, he flips a tape in the cassette player.
When the MUSIC starts, he SINGS along with it.
He drives by the apartment, but is stopped at the light on the corner across from Teriyaki Donut.
Butch is still chuckling, singing along with the song, as we see.
The big man himself, Marsellus Wallace, exit Teriyaki Donut, carrying a box of a dozen donuts and two large styrofoam cups of coffee.
He steps off the curb, crossing the street in front of Butch's car.
Laughing boy stops when he sees the big man directly in front of him.
When Marsellus is in front of Butch's car, he casually glances to his left, sees Butch, continues walking.
He STOMPS on the gas pedal.
The little Honda SLAMS into Marsellus, sending him, the donuts and the coffee HITTING the pavement at thirty miles an hour.
Butch CUTS into cross traffic and is BROAD-SIDED by a gold Camaro Z-28, BREAKING all the windows in the Honda and sending it up on the sidewalk.
Butch sits dazed and confused in the crumpled mess of what at one time was Fabienne's Honda.
Blood flows from his nostrils.
A PEDESTRIAN pokes his head inside.
Marsellus Wallace lies sprawled out in the street.
GAWKERS gather around the body.
This jerk's yelling makes Marsellus come to.
TWO PEDESTRIANS help the shaken Butch out of the wreckage.
The woozy Marsellus gets to his feet.
Marsellus follows the Gawker's finger and sees Butch Coolidge down the street, looking a shambles.
The big man takes out a .Automatic and the Gawkers back away.
Marsellus starts moving toward Butch.
Butch sees the fierce figure making a wobbly bee-line toward him.
Butch quickly takes measure of the situation, than stands next to the door.
Before Maynard can finish his threat, Marsellus CHARGES in.
The gangster's feet go out from under him and the big man FALLS FLAT on his back.
Butch POUNCES on the fallen body, PUNCHING him twice more in the face.
Butch takes the gun out of Marsellus' hand, than grabs ahold of his middle finger.
Butch and Marsellus look up at Maynard, who's brandishing a pumpaction shotgun, aimed at the two men.
Marsellus passes out.
They are tied up in two separate chairs.
In their mouths are two S&M-style ball gags (a belt goes around their heads and a little red ball sticks in their mouths).
Both men are unconscious.
Maynard steps in with a fire extinguisher and SPRAYS both guys until they're wide awake and wet as otters.
The two prisoners look up at their captors.
Maynard stands in front of them, fire extinguisher in one hand, shotgun in the other, and Marsellus' .sticking in his belt.
Without saying another word, Maynard climbs up the stairs.
Butch and Marsellus look around the room.
After taking in their predicament, Butch and Marsellus look at each other, all traces of hostility gone, replaced by a terror they both share at what they've gotten themselves into.
Maynard and ZED come through the curtains.
The two hillbillys are brothers.
Zed walks in and stands in front of the two captives.
He inspects them for a long time, then says.
Butch makes no reply.
Maynard opens a trap door in the floor.
Maynard reaches into the hole and comes back holding onto a leash.
He gives it a rough yank and, from below the floor, rises .
The Gimp is a man they keep dressed from head to toe in black leather bondage gear.
There are zippers, buckles and studs here and there on the body.
On his head is a black leather mask with two eye holes and a zipper (closed) for a mouth.
Zed takes the chair, sits it in front of the two prisoners, then lowers into it.
Maynard hands The Gimp's leash to Zed, then backs away.
The Gimp gets on its knees.
Maynard hangs back while Zed appraises the two men.
Butch are Marsellus are terrified.
Maynard looks back and forth at the victims.
The Gimps's eyes go from one to the other inside the mask.
Zed continues his silent sing-song with his finger moving left to right, then it stops.
After a beat, THE CAMERA MOVES to the right, zeroing in on Marsellus.
Zed stands up.
Zed grabs Marsellus' chair and DRAGS him into Russell's old room.
As Marsellus is dragged away, he locks eyes with Butch before he disappears behind the door of Russell's old room.
Butch looks at The Gimp.
The Gimp giggles from underneath the mask as if this were the funniest moment in the history of comedy.
Zed's hand inches toward the weapon.
Butch GRIPS the sword tighter.
Zed studies Butch.
Butch looks hard at Zed.
Butch steps aside, REVEALING Marsellus standing behind him, holding Maynard's pump-action shotgun.
Zed is BLASTED in the groin.
Down he goes, SCREAMING in AGONY.
Marsellus, looking down at his whimpering rapist, EJECTS the used shotgun shell.
Butch lowers the sword and hangs back.
Butch leaves Russell's old room through the red curtains.
Fabienne slowly approaches the two-wheel demon.
Butch looks at her.
Fabienne starts to cry.
He turns off the engine and reaches out, taking her hand.
Fabienne does climb on.
Butch STARTS her up.
And with that, the two lovebirds PEEL AWAY.
We're in the bathroom of the Hollywood apartment we were in earlier.
we're in the bathroom with the FOURTH MAN.
The Fourth Man is pacing around the small room, listening hard to what's being said on the other side of the door, tightly CLUTCHING his huge silver .Magnum.
The Fourth Man freaks out.
He THROWS himself against the back wall, gun outstretched in front of him, a look of yellow fear on his face, ready to blow in half anybody fool enough to stick their head through that door.
Then he listens to them talk.
Bursting out the door and blowing them all away while they're fuckin' around is the way to go.
The bathroom door BURSTS OPEN and the Fourth Man CHARGES out, silver Magnum raised, FIRING SIX BOOMING SHOTS from his hand cannon.
Jules rises, moving toward Vincent.
Vincent prepares to leave.
Jules is behind the wheel,Vincent in the passenger seat and Marvin in the back.
Vincent turns to the backseat with the .casually in his grip.
Vincent's .goes BANG! Marvin is hit in the upper chest, below the throat.
He GURGLES blood and SHAKES.
Jules is bent over a sink, washing his bloody hands while Vincent stands behind him.
Jules rises and dries his hands.
Vincent takes his place at the sink.
Vincent finishes, then dries his hands on a white towel.
When Vincent is finished drying his hands, the towel is stained with red.
Three men are standing in Jimmie's kitchen, each with a mug of coffee.
Jules, Vincent and JIMMIE DIMMICK, a young man in his late dressed in a bathrobe.
Marsellus Wallace sits at his dining table in a big comfy robe, eating his large breakfast, while talking on the phone.
Jules paces around in Jimmie's bedroom on the phone.
The CAMERA looks through the bedroom doorway of a hotel suite into the main area.
We SEE a crap game being played on a fancy crap table by GAMBLERS in tuxedos and LUCKY LADIES in fancy evening gowns.
We also see The Wolf has a small notepad that he jots details in.
He hangs up.
A silver Porsche WHIPS the corner leading to Jimmie's home, in HYPER DRIVE.
Jimmie opens the door.
We see, standing in the doorway, the tuxedo-clad man.
He looks down to his notebook, then up at Jimmie.
In the dining room, Jules and Vincent stand up.
The three men hang back as The Wolf examines the car.
He studies the car in silence.
Jimmie exists.
The Wolf continues his examination.
Jimmie hands The Wolf a cup of coffee.
He takes a sip, then, pacing as he thinks, lays out for the three men the plan of action.
The Wolf and Jimmie turn, heading for the bedroom, leaving Vincent and Jules standing in the kitchen.
The Wolf stops and turns around.
The Wolf takes a step toward him.
The Wolf is on the phone.
Jimmie comes over with a handful of linen.
Both Jules and Vincent are inside the car cleaning it up.
Vincent is in the front seat washing windows, while Jules is in the backseat, picking up little pieces of skull and gobs of brain.
Both are twice as bloody as they were before.
The interior of the car has been cleaned and lined with bedspreads and quilts.
The Wolf circles the car examining it.
Jules and Vincent stand aside, their clothes are literally a bloody mess, but they do have a sense of pride in what a good job they've done.
Jimmie holds a plastic Hefty trash bag, while The Wolf holds a garden hose with one of those guns nozzles attached.
they follow instructions given by Wolf
He hands the now-naked men a bar of soap.
He hits the trigger, water SHOOTS OUT, SMACKING both men.
The two men, trembling, scrub themselves.
The Wolf stops the hose, tossing it on the ground.
Jimmie tosses them each a towel, which they rub furiously across their bodies.
JULES AND VINCENT In their tee-shirts and swim trunks.
They look a million miles away from the black-suited, bad-asses we first met.
The Wolf and Jimmie laugh.
The garbage bag is tossed in the car trunk on top of Marvin.
The Wolf SLAMS is closed.
Jules and Vincent wait by Winston's Porsche.
Jules and Vincent bump fists.
Winston laughs, the boys groan.
Winston turns to leave.
He turns around.
Vincent takes a bite of food.
Jules takes a sip of coffee In the b.g., we see a PATRON call the Waitress.
Jules, alone, takes a mouthful of muffin, then.
Pumpkin and Honey Bunny rise with guns raised.
Under the table, Jules' hand goes to his .Automatic.
He pulls it out, COCKING IT.
Pumpkin heads his way.
He reaches him and sticks the barrel of his gun hard in the Manager's neck.
Cash register drawer opens.
Pumpkin stuffs the money from the till in his pocket.
Then walks from behind the counter with a trash bag in his hand.
Pumpkin goes around collecting wallets.
Jules sits with his .ready to spit under the table.
Pumpkin sees Jules sitting in his booth, holding his wallet, briefcase next to him.
Jules DROPS his wallet in the bag.
Using his gun as a pointer, Pumpkin points to the briefcase.
Jules' free hand lays palm flat on the briefcase.
He aims the gun right in the middle of Jules' face and pulls back the hammer.
This exchange has been kind of quiet, not everybody heard it, but Honey Bunny senses something's wrong.
Jules raises his hand off the briefcase.
Jules flips the locks and opens the case, revealing it to Pumpkin but not to us.
The same light SHINES from the case.
Pumpkin's expression goes to amazement.
Jules SLAMS the case closed, then sits back, as if offering the case to Pumpkin.
Pumpkin, one big smile, bends over to pick up the case.
Jules' free hand GRABS the wrist of Pumpkin's gun hand, SLAMMING it on the table.
His other hand comes from under the table and STICKS the barrel of his .hand under Pumpkin's chin.
Honey Bunny freaks out, waving her gun in Jules' direction.
Whenever Jules talks to Yolanda, he never looks at her, only at Pumpkin.
Pumpkin looks at him.
Pumpkin lets go of his gun and places both hands on the table.
Yolanda can't stand it anymore.
Jules lowers his gun, lying it on the table.
Pumpkin looks at him, to the money in his hand, then to Yolanda.
She looks back.
Grabbing the trash bag full of wallets, the two RUN out the door.
Vincent throws some money on the table and Jules grabs the briefcase.
A disheveled young man in a gaily colored Hawaiian shirt is launched into frame by someone offscreen.
The hatch marks on the wall behind him are apparently height markers.
As his picture is taken.
It is mounted on a tripod.
A pretty young woman in a severe police uniform peers out from behind it.
HI obliges, but still looks at Ed out of the corner of his eye.
On his eye-skewed profile.
As Hi is escorted away from the camera toward his cell.
At the far end of the corridor a huge con is sluggishly mopping the floor.
The Mopping Con snarls as Hi passes.
Panning a circle of men who sit facing each other in folding chairs.
The pan starts on Hi.
At this point the pan has reached the COUNSELOR, an earnest, bearded young man who straddles a folding chair with his arms folded over its back.
He is addressing one of the Cons.
The huge muscle-bound black man with a shaved head is knitting his brow in consternation.
Three PAROLE OFFICERS - two men and a woman - face Hi across a table.
A beat-up Chevy pulls into the all-night store's empty parking lot.
Hi is getting out of the Chevy in a Hawaiian shirt, holding a pump-action shotgun.
He primes the shotgun - WHOOSH - CLACK - and heads for the store.
Full-face exposure of Hi once again in front of the mug-shot wall.
Hi obliges but shoots sympathetic glances at Ed who is obviously upset, wiping away tears and snuffling behind the camera.
On Hi's profile.
He turns back to Ed.
Looking up through her tears as Hi is led away.
As another police officer starts to lead him away.
Struggling to call back over his shoulder as he is firmly led out the door.
The door slams.
As Hi is once again escorted toward his cell.
The Mopping Con is now in the middle-background, having worked his way about halfway up the corridor since last time we saw him.
As Hi passes.
Hi looks sheepish.
Two convicts sitting next to each other, GALE and EVELLE, appear to be friends.
Hi faces the same three PAROLE OFFICERS across the same table.
Of a parking lot, at night, deserted except for Hi's car which sits untended, its engine rumbling.
Hi backpedals into frame with a shotgun and a bag of cash.
He spins and grabs his car-door handle.
Locked.
He tries the back door.
Locked.
As we hear the wail of an approaching siren, Hi takes it on the heel and toe.
On Hi against the mug-shot wall.
We see his right hand being efficiently manipulated by Ed's two hands: She is rolling each of his inked fingers into the appropriate space on an exemplar sheet.
Ed's hand lingers on top of his.
Hi's other hand enters to rest on top of hers.
Hi slips a ring off his own finger and slides it onto Ed's.
The surly Mopping Con has now worked his way up to the foreground.
Hi is being escorted past him to his cell.
Halfway up the corridor Hi points casually at the floor.
The Mopping Con turns to watch him recede.
We begin to crane down to tighten on the absently staring Hi.
Moses' voice is mixing down as we lose him from frame.
We are now very close on Hi, staring.
The underside of the top bunk.
A sudden flash whitens and fades to leave the image of Ed, smiling behind her camera, softly supered on the underside of the bunk.
He wearily turns his head to profile on the pillow and shuts his eyes.
Eyes closed, he is illuminated by a flash.
Hi and the same three officers.
It is the familiar booking room.
Ed looks up from her camera, having just snapped a picture of another suspect against the hatched wall.
Hi cocks a finger at the suspect.
As she nervously frets at her white bridal gown in front of a mirror.
Gazing earnestly into the camera.
A congregation is seated behind her - the bride's side wearing police blues; the groom's side, Hawaiian shirts.
Also staring into the camera.
Over their shoulders, the minister.
On the newlyweds smiling at the camera.
On the newlyweds smiling at each other, profile to the camera.
In the middle of a vast expanse of desert.
Hi is working the drill press, wearing goggles and sweat- stained overalls.
Next to him idly stands Bud, a veteran of the shop, with a grimy face and a pair of goggles pushed up on his forehead.
Hi is scowling at his paycheck.
Behind the barred window a fat cashier grins.
Hi sits in a lawn chair in front of the trailer.
Both are wearing sunglasses, looking at the setting sun.
The scene is suffused with a warm yellow light.
As the sun sets, the light is turning from yellow to amber.
Hi and Ed watch, their heads following its slow downward arc.
The amber is turning to a more neutral dusky light as the sun has set.
Hi and Ed continue to stare at the point where it disappeared.
The dusk is slipping away into darkness.
We are by now holding on pitch black.
Crickets chirp.
From the darkness.
Ed is crossing off the last day on the calendar before a day circled in red.
Hi is wearily entering after a long day at work, clutching his lunchpail.
Ed flies into frame and leaps into his arms, covering him with kisses.
A squad car, its siren wailing, kicks up dust as it roars into the foreground.
Hi and Ed are seated on folding chairs facing an agent's desk.
Hi wears a sport coat over his Hawaiian shirt.
Ed is in her dress blues.
Looking, with a dead pan, from the file to Hi.
His face still deadly neutral, the agent looks back down at the file and unfolds the accordioned rap sheet, revealing it to be a couple feet long.
On Ed as she stares vacantly out the passenger window.
Driving.
He looks from Ed out to the road.
Over Hi's shoulder as he stares listlessly at himself in the mirror, a razor held forgotten in one hand, his face half lathered and half shaved.
The bedroom is somewhat messy.
Ed sits on the edge of the bed, also staring listlessly.
Her police uniform is on but not yet buttoned.
Her hands lie palm-up in her lap, like two dead fish.
Once again Hi works as his sweaty gum-chewing colleague stands idly by.
Alone in his Chevy.
He looks to the side.
Hi and Ed sit listlessly watching TV.
Ed perks up, reacting to something on TV.
Hi notices her reaction and also sloughs off his stupor to watch.
A newscaster silently reading copy.
Behind him news footage of five nurses holding infants mortices in.
Watching intently.
Eyes still locked on the set, Ed reaches her hand out to Hi.
Eyes still locked on the set, Hi takes her hand in his.
NATHAN ARIZONA, a stocky middle-aged man in a white polyester suit, is gesturing expansively with his white cowboy hat toward a one-story warehouse store with a football stadium parking lot, chroma-keyed in behind him.
The businessman takes his newspaper and releases the machine door as he turns to leave.
Hi snags the door before it closes and takes his own five- finger discount copy.
He flips the paper over to look at the headline.
The banner headline of the Tempe Intelligencer is: Arizona Quints Go Home.
A pull back from the paper shows Hi and Ed reading it together at home.
They look from the paper to each other.
In the middle of the desert.
We are floating in toward Ed who is seated, waiting, in the driver's seat of Hi's Chevy.
Hi enters frame and cinches down a ladder that is tied to the roof of the car.
Pieces of red flag flutter at either end of the ladder where it sticks out beyond the car.
Hi gets in the car.
It starts down the long, winding road leading away from the trailer, kicking up dust.
Tableau of a couple at home.
Nathan Arizona is on the telephone, his stocking feet up on an ottoman.
Florence sits reading Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care.
The living room is dominated by a large oil portrait of Nathan and Florence, gazing out from the wall over the mantelpiece.
From somewhere upstairs we hear an infant start to cry.
Florence stops reading and looks up at the ceiling.
Nathan is oblivious.
The baby stops crying and Florence's attention returns to her book.
As he throws out his wrist to look at his watch a third title is supered beneath the first two: 8:p.m.
He starts to replace the receiver but brings it back with an afterthought.
As he slams the phone into the cradle the titles disappear.
Another baby starts crying.
Florence looks up at the ceiling.
Close on the crying baby as Hi bounces it, gently but desperately.
They sound restless.
The floor-level wide-angle shot shows a baby crawling toward the camera in the foreground.
Behind him, in the background, just rounding the open door from the nursery, yet another baby is making a mad dash for freedom.
Hi emerges from the nursery and, stepping around the background baby, trots toward the baby in the foreground.
By the time he reaches it the low-angle cropping shows us only his feet and calves.
The baby and, beyond it, the stairway down to the main floor.
He scoops up the baby and hurriedly tiptoes away toward the nursery.
The baby at the nursery door in the foreground; the staircase in the background.
As Hi reaches the baby we hear footsteps climbing the stairs.
Hi's free arm comes down into frame to scoop the baby up and out of frame just as: Florence's head appears, bobbing up as she climbs the stairs.
She approaches the nursery, still clutching the Dr. Spock book.
As Florence enters from the hallway door.
We track back into the room, on her, as she approaches the crib.
Halfway there she freezes, staring, in shock.
ED'S POV of Hi approaching the car.
He is shrugging and displaying a pair of manifestly empty hands.
Hi appears at her - the driver's-window.
He is reaching to open the door but she slaps his hand away from the handle.
He is trying to open the door, which Ed is holding shut with all her might.
Ed is rolling up the window and locking the door.
Muffled, through the closed window, and very forlorn.
Florence is holding one of the babies cradled against her shoulder.
The baby, peeping out over her shoulder, is facing the window.
Looking.
Of the window, as Hi's head appears in it.
Looking.
Looking back, he holds a finger to his lips.
Florence starts bouncing it, patting it on the back.
Hi and the window bouncing up and down.
Nathan is leafing through the lingerie ads in the newspaper.
Muttering.
Florence enters.
As he gets into the driver's seat.
He hands her the infant, then hands her the copy of Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care.
Hi nods as he pulls away from the curb.
Ed suddenly bursts out crying.
As the lights are thrown on.
The room is hung with streamers.
Ed is entering with Nathan Jr.
He reaches for the child.
He takes the baby in both hands and holds him out at arm's length, pointing him at the various places of interest.
The baby looks goggle-eyed at each one.
Impatient with the nonsense.
He is propping Nathan Jr.up in the corner of the couch.
Hi sits at the other corner and Ed sits in a facing chair.
Hi beams at Nathan Jr.
Ed smiles at Nathan Jr.
Nathan Jr.looks from one to the other, deadpan.
They seem to be waiting for him to contribute to the conversation.
Suddenly Hi slaps his knee.
Ed is getting up.
As she picks up the baby.
He is frantically reaching for a Polaroid camera.
She sits down on the couch with Nathan Jr.as Hi starts screwing the camera into a tripod.
Absently, as he sets up the camera.
As he peers through the lens.
As she complies.
Hi sits on the couch, holding the camera's cable release.
He puts his arm around Ed and smiles at the offscreen camera.
Ed nestles her head against Hi's shoulder.
Through his teeth as he continues to grin at the offscreen camera.
The two men are trotting out to a Mercury that sits untended at a gas island, a gas hose on automatic stuck in its tank.
As Gale starts up the car Evelle yanks the hose out and drops it to the ground.
Gale is already starting to peel out as Evelle gets in.
Hi sits asleep on the sofa at the far end of the room, in a pool of lamp light.
By the time we tighten on his face the knocking has become quite loud.
He looks up, alarmed.
The front door of the trailer.
Someone is pounding insistently.
He sits up and tenses.
He looks around.
and squinting at Hi.
She hisses.
As Ed turns back to the bedroom.
As Ed enters and shuts the door.
She listens hard at the door: Hi's footsteps cross the living room, the click of the door opening, silence.
a burst of raucous male laughter.
Gale roars with laughter.
Ed smiles politely, then squints at Hi.
Gale is admiring the baby.
Hi and Ed look at each other uncomfortably.
Hi clears his throat.
Gale is staring at the streamers and decorations.
Reading aloud.
Hi and Ed respond simultaneously.
As the two men move toward the couch Ed hesitantly pipes up.
She wrinkles her nose.
Apologetically.
He is looking at the baby.
Gale, Evelle, and Hi look up at Ed, dumbstruck.
After a beat.
She looks at Hi.
Gale leans in close to Hi, a look of sincere concern on his face, and says under his breath.
There is an awkward silence as she leaves and slams the bedroom door.
Gale is carefully studying his thumbnail; Evelle stares fixedly at the ceiling.
Still looking at his thumb.
Sometime later, as Hi tiptoes in.
Ed lies in bed facing the wall; we see only the back of her head.
Hi sits gingerly on the edge of the bed and, smiling, sticks a finger through the bars of the crib to play with the baby.
The sound of the TV set in the living room filters faintly in.
Hi is momentarily startled, then goes on playing with the baby.
Ed finally turns to face him.
Hi turns to face her.
Looking straight down at Hi, asleep in bed.
We are craning down.
For a brief moment we see a wall of flames and hear it roar.
Still craning down.
Wall of flames.
Deafening roar.
Craning down.
The faint National Anthem ends: we hear the WEEEEEEEE of a test pattern.
Roaring.
At the cut: WHOOOOOSH! a huge low-rider motorcycle bursts through the flames, its engine roaring even louder than the fire.
Its driver is a huge leather-clad hellion.
The chains worn by the Biker clank ominously as he rides.
The Biker roars out of frame.
As the Biker roars into frame, his rear tire laying down a wake of fire.
As he roars along a ribbon of desert highway.
Tracking with and also in on the Biker from behind as he roars along a strip of highway.
He is reaching for the two sawed-off shotguns which are strapped crisscross across his back.
Pulling the Biker from a distance as he levels the two shotguns.
The tracking camera pulls back further to reveal a running jack-rabbit keeping pace with us in the foreground.
CRACK - as the first shotgun spurts orange the foreground rabbit keels over.
The Biker slues the other gun around.
On a rock in the foreground, a desert lizard suns himself.
The Biker is approaching in the distant background.
CRACK - from afar, the foreground lizard is blown away.
Of the empty desert road stretching away.
In the foreground a lone desert flower blooms.
The Biker roars into frame.
As the Biker roars away, the foreground flower bends with his draft and then bursts into flame.
From behind, booming down as we track.
We are approaching the crest of a rise.
Of the Biker approaching, craning down as he draws near.
With the crane down we momentarily lose him from view over the rise; then suddenly - ROAR - he tops the rise and, wheels spinning, is airborne.
As he crashes back down to earth in the foreground and roars away.
Only now we are no longer in the desert: We are looking down a twilight street at the end of which is the Arizona house.
The roar of his engine and clank of his chains recede as the Biker gradually dissolves into thin air.
We are left looking at the empty street and the faraway Arizona house.
The receding roar has left behind eerily beautiful singing, a woman singing a lullaby.
Faintly, behind the singing, there is also a droning high-pitched noise.
The camera starts floating forward very close to the ground, moving slowly toward the Arizona house.
The high-pitched drone is becoming less faint under the singing.
The camera is accelerating.
The drone is growing louder - we can now tell that it is a human scream.
As we approach the Arizona house we can see that a ladder is propped up to a second-story window.
We are moving quite fast now.
The scream all but buries the singing.
We are rushing toward the house, toward the base of the ladder, the sustained scream drawing us on.
We hurtle toward and then straight up the ladder with no abatement of speed, sucked forward by the deafening scream.
We reach the top and hurtle - THWAP! - through the white curtains of the open second-story window into the nursery to reveal Florence Arizona, her back to us, screaming over the crib.
We are rocketing toward her.
She is turning to us, hands pressed to her ears, mouth stretched wide in an ear-splitting shriek and we are rushing into an extreme close-up of her gaping mouth and her wildly vibrating epiglottis and we.
As they snap open.
The screaming snaps off at the cut.
The singing that the building scream covered, however, is now audible again.
Perspiration beads Hi's forehead.
It is now morning.
Ed walks back and forth, gently bouncing the baby as she walks.
She is singing it a lullaby.
Hi is getting out of bed.
The orange sun, rumbling, perceptibly rising.
At the cut the rumble of the sun is snapped off by the high- pitched ba-WEEEEeeee.
of a strobe going off as a flash picture is taken: We are looking over Nathan Jr.'s shoulder as he stands at his open front door, facing a battery of press people who stand out on the porch.
An obie light over a local TV news camera glares in at us; various flashbulbs pop.
A POLICEMAN from inside the house is taking Nathan by the elbow.
As Nathan allows himself to be led back into the house he calls back over his shoulder.
We are following the two, hand-held, as the Police leads Nathan toward the living room.
The room is filled with policemen milling about in several different uniforms: local police, state troopers, plainclothes detectives.
The original Policeman is leading Nathan to a table where a white-smocked technician is preparing inkpad and exemplar sheets.
The dialogue is urgent, rapid-fire and overlapping.
BYRUM has taken Nathan's right hand and is rolling its fingers onto the inkpad.
Nathan jerks his hand away.
Two men in conservative suits are approaching.
Giving his hand back.
Also raising his voice at the offscreen bellower.
Nathan is getting worked up.
He grabs the overcoat being displayed by FBI #Nathan realizes that he's gotten ink from his fingerprinting all over the coat.
He furiously kicks the coat.
Throughout the speech Nathan stalks the room, working himself into a frenzy, furiously putting coffee cups onto coasters, generally cleaning up, hectoring the police, and swiping their feet off his furniture.
Specifically, it is the hole in the muddy patch of earth that Gale and Evelle climbed out of.
We are pulling back to reveal the feet-the shiny black patent leather shoes and blue pants cuffs - becoming quickly spattered - of several policemen milling about the hole.
German shepherds sniff around also.
With a roar, motorcycle wheels enter frame.
The bike's jackbooted rider casually tools around the hole once; police step back and dogs skitter away to give him room.
He backs toward the camera and stops, standing astride the bike.
The whipcracking Biker cue mixes up.
The Biker is shaking his head; he doesn't think they went that way.
Suddenly, with a loud whipcrack effect, the Biker's head snaps to profile.
He is staring across the field, stock-still, having heard, smelled or sensed something.
The dogs milling around the hole also react, snapping to attention, a split second after the BIKER.
A jackrabbit is bounding away at the far end of the field.
After a moment, their attention returns to the hole.
His attention also returns to the matter at hand.
He squints, concentrating.
His bike rumbles.
It is the bathroom where we earlier saw Gale and Evelle combing their hair, now empty.
The bathroom is quiet except for the dripping sink, and the faint rumble of an approaching motorcycle.
It grows louder, then begins to recede as the bike shoots by the station.
Suddenly we hear the screech of the bike's brakes.
We are on the road outside the gas station as the motorcycle screeches to a halt in the foreground.
The low wide shot crops the BIKER at his shins.
In the background behind him is the gas station.
The Biker pauses for a moment, thinking or feeling.
CRASH - the bathroom door flies open as the Biker bursts in astride his hog, bright daylight streaming in with him to throw him into imposing silhouette.
The shafts of light pouring in are defined by motes of dust dancing in the air.
Fast track in on the jar of hair jelly sitting on the shelf under the mirror.
An extreme close shot shows his nostrils dilating as we hear him sniff.
They are both intently munching cornflakes, staring at something offscreen.
Ed is sitting in the living room, bottle-feeding Nathan Jr.
She is surrounded by the rumpled sheets and blankets used by the house guests.
Gale puts his spoon down and picks up a cigarette which has been smoking in the ashtray next to him.
There is a bead of milk dribbling down his chin.
He takes a contemplative puff, studying Ed.
Through a mouthful of cornflakes.
Gale blows out smoke and picks up his spoon to start back in on his cornflakes.
Hi is walking in, yawning.
Hi holds the cornflakes box arrested in mid-air.
He looks at Ed, who is motioning to gale and Evelle with her eyes.
Gale and Evelle are looking dumbly from Ed to Hi.
More relaxed now, to Ed.
Looking pleadingly at Hi.
Feeling the look, he goes back to his cornflakes.
Gale leans back to blow smoke at the ceiling.
Hi, with Ed standing by, is just opening the door to a young couple.
Glen is a short stocky blond man in his early thirties, wearing Bermuda shorts.
DOT is wearing slacks, heels, and a scarf over her hair.
From behind, Glen gives her an energetic THWOK on the ass.
Dot spins and smacks Glen across the face with her purse.
Through clenched teeth.
He reels under the blow.
Dot shrieks again, but this time muffles it with her own hand.
She tiptoes into the trailer, hand to her mouth.
Glen, rubbing his cheek, seems angry at himself.
Glen at the top of the stoop, turns out to the yard.
A scad of children, ranging in age from two to seven, are crawling over Hi's car.
One is beating on it with a large stick, another sits on the hood pulling back one of the windshield wipers, etc.
As Ed and Dot enter, Ed beaming as they go to the crib.
She puts her hand to her forehead, reacting to the baby as if she is about to faint.
She hides her face in her hands and looks away as if blinded, then sneaks a look around her hands.
The weaving knee-level tracking shot is following a six-year- old boy in shorts and a dirty T-shirt as he tramps around the trailer, brandishing a big stick.
The track weaves off him and onto Hi, who is bending down to pull a couple of beers from the refrigerator.
He raises his voice to make himself heard over the din of all the children boiling around the room.
Hi considers this.
Hi looks down.
He starts laughing, then catches himself.
He laughs; Hi doesn't react.
Hi looks over at the TV, which the bam-shouting six-year-old is banging with his stick.
The kid in the cowboy hat is reaching up to slap Hi on the ass.
He takes a sip of beer.
Hi is looking at another child who is just finishing off the T in FART in crayon on the wall.
Glen chuckles, looking at his errant child.
The sound of shattering glass.
Glen looks around.
Dot faces Hi and Ed across a picnic table covered with grilled hamburgers, rolls, green jello mold, cooler, etc.
One of the younger children sits in the middle of the table, occasionally taking a fistful of jello and flinging it at Hi.
The two women don't seem to notice.
Hi sits stock-still with a stony face.
Dot shrieks.
Hi shrugs, then flinches as a piece of jello hits his shoulder.
Dot is looking offscreen.
We are tracking on Hi and Glen as they walk side by side.
Glen is sopping wet, wearing only swimming suit and wing- tipped shoes.
His body is ghostly pale except for a V-area at his neck and his arms below the short-sleeve line, which are a bright angry red.
Glen bursts out laughing; Hi walks on in silence.
He roars with laughter and slaps Hi heartily on the back.
As he chuckles sympathetically.
Glen is eyeing him shrewdly.
He stops walking.
Hi stops also, looking at Glen, Still puzzled.
Glen lays a companionable hand on his shoulder.
He looks around as if to make sure they are not being overheard.
His tone is confidential.
Glen nods energetically.
Through tightly clenched teeth.
THWAK - Hi's fist swings into frame to connect solidly with Glen's jaw.
Glen's feet leave the ground.
He flies back and lands in a heap.
Glen in the foreground, groggily rubbing his jaw; Hi approaching menacingly.
With Hi still advancing, Glen starts to run.
With Hi pursuing in the background.
Glen is looking back over his shoulder to shout at Hi as he runs.
CRASH! - Glen runs smack into a tree and drops like a sack of cement.
Hi is driving, his jaw rigidly set, his temple throbbing.
Nathan Jr.sits in a safety seat between him and Ed.
He is pulling into a convenience store parking lot.
He puts the car in park but leaves it running.
As he gets out of the car.
A hand enters to take a package of panty hose from the standing rack.
A hand enters to take a big carton of disposable diapers from the shelf.
A pimply-faced lad with a paper cap on his head.
He is looking up from a dirty magazine, reacting in horror to something approaching.
Hi is approaching the check-out island with a gun in one hand, the carton of Huggies tucked under the other.
The L'Eggs stocking is pulled over his head to distort his features.
As he presses a silent alarm under the lip of his counter.
Ed is reading to Nathan Jr.from a large picture book.
She pauses for a moment, listening.
We can barely hear a distant siren.
She resumes absently, but her voice trails off.
We can definitely hear the WHOO-WHOO of the siren now, and it is definitely approaching.
Ed hooks an arm around the seat and looks behind the car, then looks forward.
Indistinctly visible through the semi-reflective glass are two figures at the check-out island.
One is pointing something at the other.
As the siren is growing louder.
Under her breath.
She unstraps herself and gets out of the car.
Two-shot of Hi and the CASHIER, who is stuffing bills into a grocery bag.
Beyond them we can see Ed, outside, circling the front of the car.
Her shout is muffled through the glass.
With this Hi notices her.
He turns to the Cashier.
But Ed is already getting into the driver's seat of the car.
As she slams the car door shut.
The siren is quite loud now.
The car squeals out of the lot.
The squad car tops a rise to bounce into view, its siren wailing.
Hi bursts out the door, still wearing the stocking.
The carton of Huggies is still tucked under one arm.
Bellowing hopefully after his departing car.
Hi looks around the parking lot, bewildered.
The wailing siren is becoming painfully loud.
Hi looks behind him at the plate-glass front of the store, where a bullet pock mars the glass.
Through the glass we see the pimply young Cashier with the paper cap pop up from behind the counter to sight down his huge .Magnum for another shot.
The gun is so big he uses both hands to heft it.
SMACK-CRACK - the bullet kisses another hole in the glass.
Hi is off and running.
The squad car is screeching into the lot.
An officer tumbles out of the passenger side before the car is fully stopped.
He rolls on the pavement, then hurriedly rights himself and takes up a half-kneeling shooting stance.
At the same time the little Cashier is emerging from the Eleven with his gun.
The two bang away at Hi's retreating figure - the Policeman's revolver popping, the Cashier's Magnum booming.
Huffing and puffing down the road with his Huggies.
The cop car careens onto the street in the background, its siren wailing.
The PASSENGER COP is leaning far out his window, one hand gripping the light-and-siren rack, the other pointing a gun at Hi, shooting away.
Bullets whizz past.
Suddenly, with a soft pthunk! the Huggies box pops forward, out from under Hi's arm - hit by a bullet.
Still running, Hi reaches forward, tries to catch it on the fly, bobbles it, tips it - loses it.
He overruns it a couple steps before he can bring himself up short.
He turns and reaches to pick up the box but - PING-PING - bullets chew up the road near his hand.
Leaving the Huggies, Hi takes off through a well-manicured yard.
The police car is proceeding on down the street to catch him around the corner, the driver still drawling over his loudspeaker.
We are tracking behind Hi as he runs up to the house and crashes through the screen door.
Still tracking behind him as he runs through the living room.
A middle-aged couple sits on the couch watching TV.
They look up as Hi rushes by.
Hi plunges down a staircase.
As he does so we hear: ka-chick ka-chock ka-chick ka-chock.
He emerges into a rec room where he and we rush past two kids playing ping-pong.
He runs out the back door.
OFFICER STEENSMA plunges down the stairs.
Outdoors now, running, crossing the street behind the house and entering the parking lot of a supermarket on the other side.
As a pack of dogs thunders in.
The lead Doberman with chain and spike has now picked up about a dozen neighborhood dogs.
The dogs thunder through the living room and down the stairs.
As Hi bursts in.
Tracking on him as he runs down the broad front aisle, head whipping as he runs, looking up each perpendicular lane, searching for something.
He turns up one of the last lanes, races along it and grabs a carton of Huggies, still on the flat run.
He emerges into the broad back aisle and runs along it, but at the first perpendicular lane he hits, we see Officer Steensma, gun leveled, at the other end.
He fires.
Hi keeps running.
The Policeman is running along the front aisle, keeping pace with Hi running along the back aisle.
He squeezes off shots at Hi as each lane gives him the opportunity.
Hi abruptly stops between lanes and doubles back, losing the Policeman.
He runs down the second lane he comes to toward the front of the store.
The pack of dogs appears at the end of the lane and thunders up toward Hi, braying at the top of their doggy lungs.
The lead Doberman holds in his teeth a paper cap.
Hi reverses again, and emerges into the back aisle.
BANG! A pyramid of cranberry juice explodes at his shoulder.
Hi looks.
Standing in the raised platform-cubicle at the front of the store is the Store Manager, a fat man in a white short-sleeved shirt with a lit cigarette dangling from his mouth.
The Manager cracks open his shotgun and inserts two more cartridges - THOONK THOONK - in the smoking chamber.
Hi doubles back once again toward the back aisle.
The MANAGER is blowing out groceries on the shelves behind him.
As he coolly levels his police special and takes aim at Hi.
Still on the dead run, Hi is flinging the carton of Huggies.
The carton rockets straight at the camera.
Futilely raising his gun to avoid-impact: The Huggies catch him square on the chest.
The force makes him stumble one fatal step backwards - into the back aisle - where: CRASH - He is hit broadside and bowled over by a rocketing shopping cart, propelled by an hysterically screaming SHOPPER.
Racing on down the back aisle, bellowing.
Tracking from in front.
Beyond her we can see the pack of furiously barking dogs, nipping at her heels.
As Hi emerges through the back door.
Ed is just skidding around the corner.
Hi scrambles in the passenger side.
The car peels out of the lot.
THWAK - Ed gives him a good hard slap and Hi's head rolls toward the camera.
Hi's eyes are fixed on something in the road ahead.
Hi's attention is still on the road.
He is opening his door, even though the car is still racing along.
He absently concedes.
In the extreme foreground sits the first carton of Huggies that Hi dropped in the middle of the road.
The car is approaching.
As the car passes the carton, Hi's hand reaches from the passenger door and snags it.
As Hi pulls the carton in and slams his door shut.
Crane up in the car speeding away.
As Ed bursts in the front door, holding Nathan Jr.
They look up, dumbstruck and mortified, from the sofa where the have been watching TV.
Ed is unmoved.
She storms into the bedroom and slams the door.
There is an awkward silence as Gale studies his thumb and Evelle stares at the ceiling.
Finally Evelle turns to Hi.
His gesture seems to take in the trailer and the entire domestic situation.
Hi is shaking his head.
Gale chuckles.
Hi is still shaking his head.
The camera has floated in to a close shot of Hi, staring glumly at GALE.
Following it, very close, we see only its rear wheel and fender and twin exhaust pipes, one on either side.
Flame is boiling in each exhaust pipe as the hog roars.
From behind the Biker's head as he rides through the night.
Creeping in.
We are tracking in toward the one window that is illuminated, with a feeble yellow light.
In voice-over, Hi is composing a letter.
Creeping in on Hi 's hunched back, as he sits over the kitchen table writing the letter.
The yellow lamp sitting on the table is the only light on in the trailer.
Creeping in on GALE and EVELLE, sprawled on the sofa and easy chair respectively, sawing boards.
Still creeping in.
Creeping in on the pimply-faced Cashier, sitting asleep behind the counter, a dirty magazine lying face-down, open on his chest.
Creeping in on Nathan Jr. in the living room, asleep in his ottoman armchair, lit only by the snow from the TV set he is facing, a half-full glass of milk on the coffee table next to him.
His robe is disheveled; his eyeglasses have slid down his nose.
Creeping in on Ed and Nathan Jr., asleep together in the double bed.
Ed's arm is draped protectively over the sleeping infant.
We start to hear the rumble of the motorcycle mix up again.
Night sky.
The motorcycle tire enters frame as the bike comes to a halt.
The Biker plants a jackbooted foot in the foreground.
The engine rumbles.
We are craning up over the Biker's back to reveal what he is looking at: We are on a bluff overlooking the trailer park.
In the window of one trailer below, a yellow light glows.
Still creeping in.
Roaring at the cut.
Through it we can see the Biker sitting on the ground, legs stretched out in front of him, back resting against his parked motorcycle, arms folded across his chest.
Perfectly motionless, he stares at the campfire.
We are floating in toward him.
As we come closer, eventually drawing in to a close shot of his face, we gradually realize something peculiar about his eyes: He seems to have none.
Although his eyes are unblinkingly open we do not see eyeballs, but only fire - either a reflection of the campfire or something roaring - burning-inside.
A jackbooted foot grinds it out.
Leading into the showroom.
The Biker's mail-and-chained fist pushes the door open.
Behind the jackboots as they stroll through a showroom of unpainted furniture and bathroom fixtures.
Swinging as he walks, the Biker's hand produces a fresh cheroot from no apparent source-either sleight-of-hand or magic.
Similarly producing a long wooden match.
Biting down on the cigar.
Dragging the kitchen match along the unfinished wood surface of an expensive bureau, leaving an ugly black scar.
The match erupts into roaring flame.
Crackling as it is lit.
From the inside of the office.
The name on the pebbled glass is a backwards Nathan Arizona.
There is the shadow of a man approaching the door, and muffled voices.
The door swings open and Nathan stands looking in, his middle- aged secretary hanging at his elbow.
Nathan is staring toward his desk.
The Biker sits with his back to us, jackboots propped lazily on the desk.
His head bobs and ducks, as if he is following some movement in the air in front of him.
Eyes on the Biker he slams the door shut behind him, looking for some reaction.
He still does not react to Nathan, not even bothering to give him a glance.
His eyes continue to follow some phantom movement.
When the Biker speaks it is still without looking at Nathan, and with a surprisingly soft voice and mild, unhurried manner.
He takes a drag on his cigar.
SMALLS is pleasantly shaking his head.
Nathan is looking at him stonily.
Quick as a flash the heretofore languid Smalls bolts forward, his fist stopped an inch short of Nathan's nose.
His index finger and thumb are pinched together-holding the leg of a struggling fly that he has just plucked from the air.
He flicks the fly away.
Nathan stares grimly at Smalls.
Nathan swivels to punch numbers on a telephone.
He swivels back, looking up, and his speech stops short.
The office is empty.
A whipcrack effect builds to the cut and.
He has been slumped over the kitchen table, asleep.
Hi looks up.
Gale and Evelle are smiling down at him.
Hi takes the envelope that he was slumped over, to Ed written on its face.
There is a harsh knock at the door.
All three tense.
Hi is staring.
The knock comes again.
He goes to the door, pulls back its shade and peeks out.
Hi is looking at him evenly.
Hi is suddenly nervous and urgent.
Hi takes one step down holding out a calming hand.
Glen takes two nervous steps away and reassures himself by resting a hand on the door of his station wagon.
Hi stops short.
Glen smiles.
He spits on the dirt in front of him.
Hi's face is set in rigid dismay.
Glen is getting into his car.
He slams the door.
And the car squeals off.
Hi looks back at the trailer.
A slat in the window blind drops back into place.
He opens the door.
Evelle is already emerging from the bedroom with the baby in his arms.
Hi moves toward Evelle.
His teeth are set; he means business.
Gale steps in front of Hi.
He snaps the chamber shut and leaves frame, still talking.
He is walking back into frame holding another handgun now in addition to the .38, this one an automatic.
He snaps a clip into the automatic.
Hi is leaving frame again, continuing to talk as we hear him rummaging offscreen.
Hi enters frame with the two handguns stuck in his belt, holding his pump-action shotgun.
He primes the shotgun: WHOOSH-CLACK.
From the front bumper of an automobile.
Beautiful desert stretches to the horizon.
The road rushes under the camera.
Gale drives, gazing out at the road.
Evelle holds Nathan Jr., occasionally bouncing him.
Contemplatively.
Evelle is looking down at the baby, shifting him in his lap.
Gale looks over.
Evelle, beaming, looks up from the baby to Gale.
Close on a carton of diapers being set down on the check-out counter.
Evelle and the Cashier, a late-middle-aged man (perhaps the proprietor of this small mom-and-pop store) face each other across the check-out counter.
Evelle has various baby purchases - the diapers, baby food, etc.
- piled on the counter.
The Cashier is ringing them up.
Through the open door beyond them we can see a strip of the parking lot.
Up over his head.
He takes a plastic-covered squirt gun off a display rack and drops it on the counter.
He is looking around at the other impulse purchases displayed by the register; he unhooks a bag of balloons.
Evelle is pulling a gun out of his belt.
The Cashier is already down on the floor, out of frame.
Hands free now, Gale reaches for the back door.
Gale drives as Evelle sorts through his purchases.
Gale is looking around, puzzled.
The two men look at each other.
The two men's heads whip around to look in the back seat.
They look at each other in horror.
The two men's eyes widen as they remember at the same time: both look up at the roof of the car.
Coming off the accelerator.
Screaming as he watches the foot.
Gale, choked up, speaks in a low unsteady voice.
Ed driving.
Both are staring wordlessly ahead at the road.
Hi looks over at Ed, glum but trying to be kind.
He is nodding to himself.
This shuts Hi up.
After a moment.
Hi clears his throat.
A huge rumbling rippling red ball that fills the frame.
As we hear his footfalls on concrete steps, Smalls rises into frame, apparently climbing a stoop.
The sun behind him throws him into silhouette; the extreme telephoto flattens him against the sun.
Heat waves ripple between us and him, making his figure slightly waver.
The rumble builds, louder and louder, until it is snapped off by a click.
The front door handle clicks open and Smalls stands in the doorway.
The abandoned trailer is perfectly quiet.
The room is a complete shambles from the fight.
Sunlight filters in between the slats of the venetian blinds.
Smoke from Lenny Smalls' cheroot ripples up through the light.
After only a momentary pause at the door to take in the scene, Smalls goes directly to a specific spot in the debris and nudges some of it aside with his toe, exposing a piece of paper.
He bends down to pick it up but suddenly freezes, with a soft grunt of surprise.
As he stands up with the piece of paper.
It is Gale's picture of the Farmers and Mechanics Bank.
Baking in the noonday sun.
Sitting in the front seat of their idling car, looking at the bank.
They look at each other.
Gale reaches for his door.
As Gale and Evelle bang in through the door.
Evelle holds a shotgun; Gale holds a shotgun in one hand and Nathan Jr.in his car seat in the other.
Everyone freezes, staring at Gale and Evelle.
An Old Hayseed with his hands in the air speaks up.
There is a murmur of acknowledgment from all the people on the ground.
Gale is tossing Evelle a sack.
He is looking in shock at the tellers' counter.
A muffled voice from offscreen.
Evelle is momentarily abashed, but then brightens.
Gale registers understanding.
There is a murmur of acknowledgment from all the people on the ground.
The camera is locked down on the roof of the rocketing squad car, looking past its flashing gumballs.
The car is approaching the townlet, its siren wailing.
A teller is finishing stuffing the last of two burlap bags.
Close on her hands, we see her putting in a cash packet that is really only a few bills and a sleeve surrounding and hiding a small plastic device.
The teller hits a button on the device and it starts ticking; she shoves it into the sack.
He is grabbing the two sacks and tosses one to Gale, who also picks up the baby.
As the two are backing toward the door.
They bolt out the door.
Siren jumps in loud at the cut.
It is the same locked-down shot over the gumballs.
Peeling out from in front of the bank.
Gale is driving; Evelle starts pawing through one of the sacks.
A thought registers with Gale and Evelle at the same moment.
They look at each other.
They both twist frantically to look in the back seat.
Bellowing.
KA-POP! With a loud flat crack something detonates in the front seat and the interior of the car is spattered with bright blue paint.
Gale and Evelle, both covered in blue, are screaming in rage, fear and incomprehension.
Blue dollar bills snap and flutter around the inside of the car.
The car is swerving wildly as Gale drives blind, the inside of the windshield covered with blue paint.
He reaches forward to wipe clear a patch of windshield.
As the blue paint is smeared away we see Hi and Ed's car parked broadside in the middle of the road.
Hi and Ed are in front of it, Hi aiming his scatter gun, Ed a revolver.
Ed is running over to Gale and Evelle's car, throwing open the back door to look for the baby but coming out only with Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care.
Evelle is staggering around in shock, looking in disbelief at his own blue body.
Hi and Ed are climbing into their car.
Hi and Ed are already peeling out.
Sitting placidly in his car seat that sits in the middle of the road in front of the bank.
As we hold on Nathan Jr.
As we boom up to show the empty street beyond the baby, we hear the crack of return fire and furiously squealing brakes.
The screech culminates in a loud explosion that snaps off the siren wail.
The police car is apparently history.
From beyond the crest of the road ahead a ball of flame has leapt up with the explosion.
As the explosion echoes and fades we hear the deep rumble of an approaching engine.
Lenny Smalls' motorcycle appears over the rise.
Framed against fire and smoke, he is coming directly toward us, and the baby.
As they top a rise coming from the other direction.
We see the baby sitting in the middle of the street, and Lenny fast approaching from the background.
The extremely low wide shot, locked down to the speeding bike, shows us rushing toward the rear of Nathan Jr's car seat.
With a clank of chains Lenny's hand drops down into frame, palm forward, tensing to scoop up the car seat that we are almost upon.
Low shot with Nathan Jr.in the foreground.
He is scooped up and out of frame as Lenny roars by.
Roaring along.
He hooks the car seat over his handlebars.
Lenny is approaching.
Lenny is sawing a shotgun out of his back holster and leveling it at the oncoming car.
Lenny is sighting down the gun, swinging it around as he approaches the car.
The shotgun spits orange flame and the windshield explodes in.
Lenny roars by.
The baby on the handlebars in the foreground; the road rushing by beyond him.
The bike banks into a hard turn.
Shooting through where the windshield used to be, cutting in at the end of the skid as the car rocks to a halt.
Hi and Ed are raising their heads.
Facing forward, they do not see Lenny approaching again through the rear window.
He is sawing out his second shotgun.
Hi looks around, reaches and pulls Ed down beneath him just as: KA-BOOM! - The second shotgun roars and the back window spits in.
As Lenny roars past the back window he casually flips something in.
Folded over in the front seat.
Below them something bounces into and around the leg well - Lenny's grenade.
As the two front doors fly open and Hi and Ed spill out - Hi from the driver's side, heading for the far side of the road, and Ed from the passenger side.
As she dives for cover behind a parked car.
Beyond her - KABOOM! - their car explodes and bounces, pouring black smoke.
The explosion flings him to the ground in the middle of the street.
Looking up the street to where Lenny is wheeling his bike in a U-turn.
He is not finished yet.
Hi flat on his back, woozily shaking his head.
He weakly raises himself on his elbows to look down the street.
Looking down the length of his own body.
His legs stretch away in a V.
Crashing down from a wheelie, Lenny's roaring bike is almost upon him - aiming up the middle of the V.
He rolls.
As the bike is roaring by.
Reaches and snags a chain on Lenny's passing boot.
Dragged several yards before the boot shakes him off, leaving him on his stomach in the middle of the road.
Hi looks up the road.
Lenny is again sluing the bike around.
Smoking as it skids around in the foreground, completing its turn.
Boom up Lenny's back to reveal Ed stomping straight up the street toward him - unarmed, unafraid.
As Ed closes in.
Lenny's arms rise into frame.
With a roll of his wrists two knives appear in his hands.
On his stomach, sighting down the gun toward Lenny.
Ed stepping into his line of fire, blocking Lenny.
Raising an arm to stab.
Ed stoops to scoop the baby from the car seat, revealing: Hi, behind her.
He fires.
Drilled by Hi's bullet, drops its knife.
The exit wound spurts, not flesh and blood, but a brief jet of fire.
Quick as a flash hurling the other knife at Hi.
As the knife stings the gun out of his hand.
Lenny bends to scoop up the knife he dropped.
As she runs toward the bank, clutching Nathan Jr.to her chest.
As Ed bursts in.
The floor is littered with obedient hayseeds.
From where he lies prone.
BANG: The front door bursts open before Lenny's roaring hog.
It sails off a step into the sunken atrium, and lands with a CRASH amidst the hayseeds.
As she runs for the back door and pushes through it.
As he slaloms through the wildly scattering hayseeds.
As Lenny bursts out.
With a whipcrack effect he looks left, then right.
He jerks the bike right, to where an alleyway flanks the side of the bank.
Ed is running up the alley toward the front of the bank as Lenny enters.
He roars after her.
Roaring down the alley.
As the bike approaches behind her.
Closing on Ed as she reaches the mouth of the alley.
A plank swings into frame, straight at the camera.
Matching action as Hi finishes swinging the plank into Lenny's face.
Lenny hits the ground hard as his bike spins out from under him.
Riderless, twisting crazily into the street where it collapses.
Lenny is rising to his feet beyond them as Hi nods encouragement to Ed.
Lenny is reaching back to throw his knife.
Hi, unaware, is turning to face him, presenting the plank as - the knife is thrown.
It thunks into the plank, piercing it through.
Hi backs up, swinging the knife - studded plank to make Lenny keep his distance.
As he reaches up to unhook a chain from a ring on his vest shoulder.
As the free chain drops down into his palm.
Swinging the chain - WHOOSH WHOOSH - at the backpedaling Hi.
As the chain snakes around it and rips it out of Hi's hands.
Grabbing Hi by the shirtfront.
Swings down and brass knuckles appear on it.
As Lenny's fist swings into frame to club him forehand, then backhand.
An uppercut from his heels sends Hi sprawling back.
As Hi lands against it, banging his head.
He sinks to the ground.
Lenny is casually walking toward him, lighting a cheroot.
Hi flops over onto his stomach and starts wriggling under the car.
Hi's face in the foreground as he desperately seeks escape.
Behind him we can see Lenny casually reaching down and grabbing an ankle.
The shot is framed identically to the shot in the Arizona nursery where Hi pulled a baby from under the crib.
Lenny pulls.
Hi is dragged away from the camera and out from under the car.
Struggling to stand up.
Lenny wraps his arms around him and applies a tremendous bear hug.
Crushed against Lenny.
His hands paw futilely at Lenny's chest.
Lenny finally flings Hi away.
Landing in the dust, all the fight beaten out of him.
Tired of the fight: He saws out both shotguns.
On the guns as Lenny's thumbs draw them back.
He raises the guns to fire.
The end of the road.
He wearily lifts a hand, defensively extending it in front of him - then stops, staring at.
A hand grenade pin hangs, glinting, from one of his fingers.
Pawing at Lenny's chest he must have hooked his finger through its ring.
Reacting.
Reacting to Hi reacting.
He looks down.
On the bandoliers across his chest, silver pins glint in all the grenades - except one.
Its squeeze-lever juts at a right angle from the grenade.
Hi's jaw drops.
The lit cheroot hits the ground between his boots.
Scrambling to his feet.
Trying to drop the shotguns to free his hands.
In his panic his fingers tangle in the trigger guards.
Starting to run.
Finally freeing his hands.
Diving behind the parked car.
His hands fly in to wrap around the grenade - too late - bright light.
Blows sky-high.
There is a roar as if the earth were cracking open and flame as if hell were slipping out.
We pan the fire to the sky.
A white aluminum ladder rises up into the blackness, clanking softly.
The top of the ladder arcs toward the camera.
It is late at night; the nursery is dark and empty.
Of the unpainted crib with the burned-in names: Harry, Barry, Larry, Garry, and Nathan Jr.
As we pull back from the headboard Ed's arms are gently depositing the sleeping Nathan Jr.into the crib.
Hi puts the singed copy of Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care next to the baby.
Hi and Ed looking sadly down at the baby.
The silence is broken by the bleat of a squeeze-me toy as the lights are snapped on.
Hi and Ed turn, startled.
Nathan stands in his jammies, hair disheveled, holding a gun and squinting against the light.
Keeping the gun trained on Hi and Ed, he slowly raises a pair of eyeglasses to his nose.
He advances cautiously into the nursery, gesturing with his gun.
Hi and Ed back away from the crib.
Nathan peers in and studies the baby for a moment.
He lays the gun down, tenderly picks up the baby and holds him to his chest.
A tear forms at the corner of his eye.
Hi and Ed are quietly moving back towards the ladder.
As he bounces the baby, studying Hi and Ed.
Hi shrugs.
Nathan turns to put the baby back in the crib.
He turns around with a thought.
Hi does a small take, surprised at this much integrity.
She stands looking into the crib.
Hi steps up next to her and puts an arm around her shoulder.
Ed starts crying softly as she gazes into the crib.
Hi murmurs something to comfort her.
Nathan is studying the two of them.
Hi turns to face him.
He speaks in a rush.
Nathan looks at her.
Finally he nods and sighs.
He indicates Ed with a nod of the head.
He clears his throat and turns to the door.
His tone is harder again.
He snaps off the lights.
He has disappeared into the hall.
Looking straight down at Hi, asleep in the trailer bedroom.
We start to crane down.
A beautiful dusk landscape.
We are floating in over the field, abutting the prison, that Gale and Evelle popped out of.
In the middle background of the extreme long shot two men are walking across the field.
Still floating forward but now much closer to the two walking men.
We see that they are Gale and Evelle.
Both are still dyed blue.
They are approaching the hole in the ground.
Evelle is starting to climb into the hole.
Evelle has disappeared and Gale starts climbing in.
The front door has a holly wreath on it.
Five three-year-olds in their pajamas are opening presents around a tree as Nathan and Florence look on.
We have been isolating in on one of the children peeling the wrappings off a package marked to Nathan Jr.
Inside is a shiny red plastic football.
Pulled over on the state highway in the middle of the desert, a police motorcycle parked behind it.
Glen is leaning out the driver's window of the car talking to the state trooper who stands facing him.
Glen is grinning and talking with his hands cupped in front of him, as when he told Hi about the Pollack who almost stepped in the pile of shit.
The trooper, in crash helmet and dark sunglasses, is listening tight-lipped and stone-faced as Glen finishes his story and slaps his knee.
The trooper is clicking open his ballpoint pen and reaching his citation book from his breast pocket.
It sits on a tee in the middle of a football field.
A cleated foot boots the football out of frame.
Looking up, arms out at his sides, waiting to receive the kicked ball.
He catches the ball and starts running.
He is skillfully eluding and stiff-arming tacklers.
He reaches the end zone and triumphantly spikes the football.
He whips off his helmet and we track in on the face of the rosy-cheeked high-school bruiser.
Still craning down, now very close to the sleeping Hi.
The man and woman are sitting on a sofa in the foreground with their backs to the camera.
They are in the living room of Hi and Ed's trailer, which is suffused with a warm golden light.
As they face the trailer's front door, all we see of the couple is the backs of their heads.
They both have white hair, the woman's pulled into a bun.
The old man wears a cardigan, the woman a shawl.
The front door bursts open.
Two young couples are entering as their kids - about a dozen of them - stream in around them.
The old couple on the couch raise their arms to embrace their visitors.
The children boil onto the couch.
In the trailer.
The table is all laid out with a Thanksgiving dinner, a huge turkey sitting at the far end.
The grandchildren are running into frame and taking their seats at the table, accompanied by their parents.
The elderly couple enter from either side of the camera and stand in the foreground, backs to us, facing the table.
The elderly man drapes an arm around his wife's shoulder and draws her close.
She rests her head against his shoulder, and we.
At this moment, his attention is drawn to something across the way.
While Jeff is continuing his phone conversation, we see the object of his look.
He looks up, expectantly.
There is almost a touch of eagerness in his expression.
Two pretty girls have appeared on the distant roof.
They are smiling and talking, although we cannot hear their dialogue.
Each wears a terrycloth robe.
With their backs to the CAMERA, they take off the robes, slipping them down over their shoulders slowly.
Then they spread the robes in front of them, and lie down on the roof, and out of sight.
They at least have all of Jeff's attention.
Jeff seems a little disappointed.
Jeff's eyes become set upon something else in the neighborhood he sees.
Jeff's attention is now drawn to another feature of his backyard entertainment.
Jeff asks, eagerly and alertly.
She gracefully moves across the room to the rhythm of the music and dance, toward the ice box.
THE CAMERA IS NOW FOCUSED on the window of the small building where we earlier saw the girl behind the oscillating fan.
Loud ballet music is pouring from her open window.
She begins the first graceful movement of a modern ballet interpretation.
With her feet still moving, she throws open the door, and then rhythmically moving back to the center of the room, gnaws the chicken bone, occasionally waving it in the air as part of the choreography.
She now twirls over toward a table at the other side of the room on which is an open package of bread slices, some butter nearby.
The girl, now dressed in dark and revealing leotard, and ballet slippers, has just turned away from a portable record player.
With swaying body, she puts down the chicken leg, and gracefully and rhythmically butters a slice of bread.
She picks up both bread and chicken leg and continues her interpretive dance, alternately munching the bread and butter and chicken leg.
Jeff's eyes drop from the ballet dancer's room to the one underneath.
She looks up in the direction of the music and in a calm routine fashion adjusts the volume of her hearing aid.
She is a faded, refined type.
It is a simple, but broken, melody as if someone was just learning to play the piano, or carefully composing a song.
At this moment we hear the sounds of a piano playing.
Jefferies glances out across to the other apartments as he sees.
It irritates Jeff as he looks in the direction of the new music.
On the second floor, a man has entered the living room from a hallway door.
We see a three-storied, flat-roofed apartment house.
He carries a large aluminum sample case common to salesmen.
The brick is weather-worn and faded.
Each apartment has three windows facing the back, one showing a hallway, one a living room, and the window on the right opening into a bedroom.
He sets down the case heavily, removes his hat, and slowly wipes his brow with the back of his right hand.
He takes off his coat and tie.
With his eyes still focused on the distant apartments, Jeff continues talking with Gunnison.
His shirt is stained with sweat underneath.
He rolls up his sleeves, and his well- muscled arms heavy with hair confirm his dark, husky build.
The man enters the bedroom.
The woman sits up as the man enters.
She takes a wet cloth off her forehead.
Before the man even reaches her, she begins talking, somewhat vigorously.
We can see a woman lying on the far bed.
Near her, a small table is covered with medicine bottles, spoons, boxes of pills, a water pitcher and the other impedimenta of the chronically ill.
The man stops short of the bed, makes gestures of trying to placate her, but she goes on scolding.
He hangs up and resumes his attention on the apartment of the salesman.
The salesman looks toward the bedroom door, hesitates, then reluctantly walks toward it.
He shouts back at her, turns and goes out of the room.
His attitude changes to weary patience, then irritation, then anger.
For a moment he is hidden by the wall.
Jeff shifts his look more to the right.
Jeff's attention is suddenly diverted to himself.
His leg, under the cast, begins itching.
He squirms, tries to move the leg a little.
He scratches the outside of the cast, but the itch gets worse.
It gives no relief.
He reaches for a long, Chinese back scratcher lying on the windowsill.
Carefully, and with considerable ingenuity, he works it under the cast.
He scratches, and a look of sublime relief comes over his face.
Satisfied, he takes the scratcher out.
As he replaces it on the windowsill, his attention is drawn back to the scene outside the window.
We see the man who left his apartment in anger come out of the doorway into the backyard.
He is easy to identify through the color of his garish necktie.
In one hand the man carries a small garden hoe and rake, and in the other a pair of trimming shears.
He goes to a small patch of flowers, perhaps three feet square.
They are beautiful, multi-colored three foot high zinnias.
Jeff's attention is turned to something else of interest.
Into the next door yard we see emerging from the apartment below the ballet dancer, the elderly lady.
Her skin is dead white, and her body is thin to the point of emaciation.
She carries a copy of the Herald Tribune, and still wears her hearing aid.
She settles into a folding, canvas deck chair.
She gets up, walks to the fence, and looks over.
He kneels down, inspects them, touches them affectionately and with some pride.
His anger seems to have left him, replaced by the kind of peace that flowers bring many people.
He notices her, but doesn't speak.
She begins gesturing to him how to take care of his flowers.
He listens for a moment, then looks directly at her.
The strong movements of his mouth show us that he objects vigorously to the annoyance of her comments.
She moves away from the fence, started and a little shocked.
Jeff is seated in the foreground, in a waist shot.
Behind him, the entrance door to his apartment opens.
STELLA McGAFFERY comes in.
Stella pauses on the landing to watch Jeff.
She is a husky, unhandsome, dark- haired woman who is dressed like a district nurse, with dark coat, dark felt hat, with a white uniform showing underneath the coat.
As she comes down the stairs of the landing, holding on the wrought iron railing with one hand.
She carries a small black bag.
She puts her bag down on a table.
She takes off her hat coat, and hangs them on a chair.
It is worn, and looks as if it belongs more to a fighter than a nurse.
Satisfied, she walks to Jeff.
A look at his face shows he doesn't think much of it.
She swings the wheelchair around abruptly to face her.
She takes the thermometer out of its case, shakes it down.
Looks at it.
She talks as she works.
As she leaves him holding the thermometer THE CAMERA PULLS BACK as she crosses to a divan.
She takes a sheet from underneath, and covers the divan with it.
Talking, all the time.
He takes out the thermometer.
Jeff has no answer.
She opens the bag, takes out some medical supplies: a thermometer, a stop watch, a bottle of rubbing oil, a can of powder, a towel.
Defeated, he puts the thermometer back into his mouth.
Stella goes on with her work.
THE CAMERA PANS HER over to him.
She takes out the thermometer, looks at it.
She gets down the thermometer.
She helps him stand on one foot.
Then she helps him off with his pajama top.
He hops one step, then she lowers him, face down, on the divan.
She gets a bottle of rubbing oil.
The CAMERA is very low at one end of the divan.
Jeff's head, half-buried in the sheet, is large in the fore-ground.
Beyond him Stella looms large and powerful-looking.
Stella takes a handful of oil, slaps it on his back.
He winces.
She hits him with some more cold oil.
He winces again.
Jeff gives an exasperated look.
THE CAMERA PULLS BACK as she helps Jeff to a sitting position.
He buttons on his shirt.
THE CAMERA MOVES IN as she helps him into the wheelchair, listening to him with exaggerated attention.
He, stops as he notice her attitude.
Jeff now looks out to see what has happened to the old lady, and the man with the flowers.
The elderly lady is now asleep in her deck chair, her face covered with the Herald Tribune.
Jeff's eyes travel up to the ballet dancer's window.
Dreamily, and methodically, she is brushing her long copper- colored hair.
She is sitting near the window looking into an upright mirror.
His eyes are suddenly turned in another direction, sharply to his left.
A shade has gone up, and a man, obviously a caretaker is raising a window with some effort.
Having accomplished this, he turns back into the room, and we now see him approach a young man and woman who are standing just inside the doorway.
He is now looking at the windows of the apartments nearest to him.
He hands a key to the young man, and then obligingly brings in two suitcases which he places on the floor beside them.
He gives them a studied, but agreeable nod, then departs.
We now see that the girl has a small hat with a veil, and an ornate corsage pinned to her light blue tailored suit.
The boy, who like the girl is perhaps twenty years old, wears a dark blue serge suit and a grey felt hat.
Quickly they are in each other's arms, kissing passionately, crushing the girl's corsage and pushing her hat back a little.
They part, the boy laughs nervously, and takes a furtive glance out toward the corridor.
He looks back into the room, and beckons her to come out.
She follows him wonderingly.
For a moment, both are lost from sight.
When they reappear, he is carrying her in his arms, over the threshold.
He sets her down, closes the door, and they kiss again.
Then slowly, and significantly, she looks toward the open window.
They part, still holding hands and looking into each other's eyes.
He releases her hands, goes to the window and pull down the shade, as she is reaching upward with both hands to unpin her hat.
There is a soft, understanding look on Jeff's face, and he gives an involuntary sigh.
He is unaware that Stella is now standing behind him.
He freezes, turns slowly to look up at her.
The CAMERA makes a short sweep around the neighborhood showing that some of the rooms are now with their lights on.
The CAMERA PULLS BACK into Jeff's apartment until his head fills the screen.
He is asleep.
A shadow of some other person creeps over his face.
His eyes start to open.
He looks up.
The screen is filled with the eyes, nose and mouth of a woman coming nearer and nearer to the CAMERA to kiss Jeff.
The face is more or less in shadow, a faint light coming onto the profile from the window.
The girl kisses Jeff firmly, but not passionately.
Then her head moves back an inch or two.
She speaks.
The two big profiles filling the screen.
It moves down until the lips move out of her bottom of her screen, and just the remain for fill the screen.
The CAMERA FOLLOWS HER quickly to another lamp.
She gets a little farther away from us so that we now see her down to her waist.
She turns on the second lamp and the light shows us that her beauty is not alone in her face.
The CAMERA PANS HER over to a third lamp which she turns on.
She is now full figure, beautifully groomed and flawless.
Her dress is high-style fashion and dramatic evening wear.
Jeff looks across the room at her.
She does a professional model's turn in the dress showing off its features.
Jeff replies.
She laughs pleasantly.
She looks down at the long mahogany table beside her which is littered with a number of his personal effects.
Her own handbag is also on the table.
As she talks her eyes scan the table as if she's looking for something specific.
Lisa finds what she has been looking for.
Picks up an old and cracked cigarette box, examines it as she talks.
She turns to look at him, and moves toward him, carrying the cigarette box.
Lisa facing Jeff in the chair.
She turns around quickly and dashes to the door, dropping the cigarette box on the table as she passes, THE CAMERA PANNING with her.
She goes up the two steps, stops, turns back to Jeff.
She reaches for the doorknob, turns it.
She swings open the door and stands to one side.
Framed in the doorway is middle-aged waiter wearing a white linen pea jacket with a red collar.
His reaction is one of tender amusement.
He smiles, nods enters.
He's carrying in one hand a large portable warming oven, and in the other hand an ice bucket containing a bottle of wine covered with a napkin.
He goes down the stairs, as she follows.
He hands her the wine bucket and she places it on the table.
THE CAMERA GOES with both of them.
He moves toward the kitchen.
She moves to a small bar set in the wall cabinet.
Produces two glasses, hold them up.
Puts the glasses on the table, uncovers the wine, and begins screwing in the corkscrew.
Carl comes out of the kitchen carrying the empty warming oven.
He sets it down he sees Lisa struggling with the corkscrew.
Carl, without looking at the money, puts it in his pocket.
He picks up the warning oven.
She breaks off with a little laugh, and a slight reproachful look at Jeff.
She sips her drink then says.
She puts down her glass and slides along the window seat nearer to him, THE CAMERA CLOSING IN.
She looks up at him with a serious frankness.
Jeff's opinion of that is a short chuckle.
Jeff gives a sigh of relief, exhaling his breath, then looks down toward his legs in thought.
She moves away behind him, into the kitchen.
He holds this attitude for just a moment, then seems to shake off his concern to lift his head and turn his attention to what might be happening in his neighborhood beyond his window.
Her apartment is below that of the salesman with the invalid wife.
Jeff's attention is concentrated on an apartment we have not seen before.
At the moment, she is putting on her make-up in front of the bedroom mirror.
This belongs to a single woman, about forty years of age.
She lives alone.
She is quite flat-chested, and the dress hangs unattractively.
As if she's preparing to meet someone.
Jeff leans forward with increased interest.
Behind him we get vague figure of Lisa laying a cloth over the card table.
A nearer view show us a more intimate picture of the woman Jeff is concentrating on.
THE CAMERA HAS PANNED slightly to the woman's living room window.
The spinster sweeps into the room, smiling.
A small, candle-lit table is set up, with dinner for two.
She is thin and unattractive.
She goes to the door, opens it, and in pantomime admits an imaginary caller.
She pretends to kiss him lightly, take his hat, and place the hat on a chair.
Then she shows him to a seat at the table, disappears into an unseen kitchen and returns with a bottle and two glasses.
She sits down, pours two drinks.
She lifts her drink in a toast to the imaginary man opposite her.
Jeff gives a faint, sympathetic smile, and subconsciously raises his glass in response.
Without taking his eyes from the scene, Jeff picks up his wineglass and drinks.
As he drinks, his eyes move slightly over.
Then she starts to take a sip, smiling across the table at her imaginary guest.
The smile fades from her face as her head drops.
She lowers the glass onto the table.
Suddenly she buries her head in her arms over the table and starts to sob.
He is unaware that Lisa is standing behind him, and is also watching this little drama.
Jeff, his glass in hand, looks out sympathetically.
In the background, Lisa, having just placed a pair of candlesticks on the table, is returning to the kitchen.
Both of them swing their eyes a little to the left.
The kitchen-lining room combination of the ballet dancer's apartment has now been made more presentable.
Miss Torso sees that the cocktail glass of the third man is empty.
The ice box is now skillfully concealed by a large Chinese screen.
She takes it over to the window, and starts to fill it.
She is the perfect hostess, animated, charming, and with an added personal touch for each guest.
Her every movement is followed admiringly by the eyes of the three men -- one wearing black tie, with a touch of grey in his hair, a Long Island socialite -- a young rather handsome, actor in grey flannel suit -- and last, a bright, pleasant, young man who might possibly be from Wall street, wearing a blue-pin-striped suit.
She is behaving with a sophistication which was not apparent when we first saw her in the morning.
Miss Torso is now wearing a cocktail dress, which shows off her figure to great advantage, especially when she leans toward three assorted men to offer them a plate of hors d' oeuvres.
All kitchen utensils have been put away, replaced by more attractive effects, and lamp light softens the surroundings.
The man in the tuxedo follows her over, with a casual glance toward the other two.
He stands beside her as she makes the drink.
He looks at his watch with some impatience, and makes a side comment to her as to the lateness of the time.
The latter two are engaged in an animated conversation.
She turns, gives him a light kiss on his cheek, as if she's telling him to be patient.
Instead of pacifying him, it makes him more amorous, and he puts an arm around her shoulder an plants a heavy kiss on her cheek.
She turns to face him, they look into each other's eyes a moment, and she allows herself to be kissed on the lips -- but only long enough so as to attract the attention of the other two men.
With a little admonishing look, she moves away from him, and makes him rejoin the other two.
She moves away with a significant look to him.
He ponders over her last remark, then changes his look to another direction.
THE CAMERA MOVES IN until Jeff is in semi-closeup, alone.
The newlyweds's apartment has the shades still drawn.
Although there's a light burning inside.
There is a slight, but warm, smile on Jeff's face as he looks at the drawn shade.
His eyes move away from the newlyweds' apartment, and slowly explore the neighborhood to his right.
His face sobers at what he sees.
He finds something of interest, and stops to stare at it.
The salesman has prepared a dinner tray, and is carrying it from the kitchen, through the living room, into the bedroom.
The salesman's apartment.
We see both the living room and the bedroom.
He places it on the lap of his wife, sitting up in bed.
He puts a couple of pillows behind her back to make her more comfortable.
Her attitude shows her dissatisfaction.
She begins criticizing him.
He starts to answer her back, but decides better of it, and instead, leaves the room.
The wife is grudging beginning to eat the dinner.
The husband quietly lifts a phone from the cradle, and dials a number.
Quietly she moves the tray, gets out of bed, and goes to the bedroom door to listen.
He goes to the kitchen reaches up to a wall cabinet, takes down a bottle and pours himself a drink.
In the bedroom, his wife has become aware of the call.
And instantly there is a marked change in his attitude.
We get a better view of the salesman waiting while his connection is being made.
He relaxes, smiles, is warm.
Whoever he has called answers.
He talks softly, perhaps guardedly, with an occasional glance at the bedroom door.
Jeff becomes completely absorbed with he sees.
He leans forward a little.
The wall hides her from our view.
Then suddenly, she apparently opens the door, because the living room, we see her arm suddenly appear, pointing at the man and the telephone.
He speaks quickly into the phone, and hangs up.
His face is flushed and angry as he goes toward the bedroom.
In the bedroom his wife appears walking back to the bed, followed by the husband.
She is laughing, and he is answering her in angry tones.
The more she laughs, the more angry he gets, and the harder she laughs.
She climbs in bed laughing.
Finally, he leaves the room, goes into the living room, back into the kitchen and has another drink.
He turns his eyes in the direction of the composer's apartment.
Through the studio window of the song-writer's apartment we see the man at work again on his original melody, and he is farther along the line of the melody than before.
Lisa is emerging from the kitchen, carrying the serving dish of their lobster thermidor.
Lisa slowly helping Jeff to lobster from the main dish.
Shooting over Jeff's shoulder we see beyond him the divan- bed upon which Lisa is stretched out.
A faint shade of disappointment is seen on Lisa's face; but she quickly recovers and looks down at the table.
There is one light burning, behind Lisa's head.
Jeff looks at her soberly.
She pulls up a chair and seats herself at the card table.
We now observe that two small lit candles adorn the table, and the rest of the room lights are out.
The brightness drains from Lisa's face, and she lowers her eyes slowly toward the table.
A fierce discussion is in progress.
Lisa gesticulates with her hands, body and legs.
Jeff raises both his hands.
Lisa draws back one leg, and points a finger challengingly.
Lisa, stretched out on the divan.
Jeff, getting angry.
Jeff is definitely angry.
She looks at him for a moment without speaking.
After a moment of silence, Jeff says earnestly.
Jeff says, as if remembering some old experience.
SHOOTING OVER LISA'S SHOULDER, and down her body, with Jeff in the chair beyond.
Lisa turns on her side, and stares into the room, angrily.
Lisa realizes she is getting nowhere.
We see Jeff's hand coming to the foreground with a restraining gesture.
Lisa, still looking out into the room, and without turning, says.
She turns at last, and looks across at him.
Lisa starts to rise from the divan, THE CAMERA PANNING UP.
Jeff looks across at her with some concern.
She moves away from THE CAMERA into the center of the room, as she says.
Lisa begins to move around the room assembling her possessions preparatory to leaving.
Lisa, from Jeff's viewpoint.
Jeff begin to get desperate.
Lisa pauses in the act of gathering her things together.
She gets her stole.
Jeff's eyes follow her up the steps toward the door.
Jeff starts to say something then thinks better of it, and remains silent.
Lisa turns in the half-opened door.
Jeff tries to be pleasant, and offhand.
Lisa, standing in the open doorway.
Continues smiling as she close the door softly behind her.
The pleasantness on Jeff's face slowly melts into baffled discouragement.
A low camera has Jeff's head on the foreground, with Stella just behind him, at work on his back.
She attacks the sore muscle vigorously.
She stops massaging, reaches for the oil.
Stella hits his back with a palmful of cold oil.
It takes his breath.
She helps him to a sitting position.
Jeff turns his head away for a moment.
Hands him his shirt, which he proceeds to put on.
She helps him into the chair.
The back of his chair is to the window.
He quickly turns his wheelchair around to the window until he is in profile.
The salesman, having just raised the shades in the living room, is now looking out the window.
His eyes move closer toward Jeff's apartment.
Jeff in his chair, facing the window, Stella beside him.
Jeff nearly knocks the startled Stella off her feet with his arm.
He propels his chair backward quickly, and Stella moves to the side with surprising agility.
They are both in shadow.
Jeff keeps his eyes trained on the window.
The salesman completes his searching glance at the neighborhood.
Then something directly below his window catches his attention.
He looks sharply downward, his body visibly tensing.
Jeff, with a restraining hand to Stella, begins to edge his chair cautiously forward so that he can see what the salesman is looking at.
The CAMERA PANS DOWN and we now see that the old lady with the hearing aid is leaning over the fence admonishing the dog.
The salesman leans forward and grips the window sill as he watches the dog.
THE CAMERA MOVES FORWARD, and as it reaches the edge of the window, PANS DOWN and shows us what the salesman is looking at.
The little dog that was lowered in the basket is sniffing at the salesman's personal flower bed.
Jeff's eyes move up quickly to look at the salesman.
We can faintly hear her voice saying something to the effect that he'll get into trouble.
The old lady is wearing a faded house-robe.
The dog turns to glance at her and apparently taking heed, moves away.
Jeff is amused at the dog incident.
Behind him, Stella moves to the center of the room, saying.
She begins putting her equipment back into her black bag.
Jeff's eyes lift to the salesman's apartment, and the amusement drains from his face.
He is carefully wiping out the interior with dust cloth.
The salesman has his aluminum case on the table near the center of the room.
Jeff continues to what the salesman, his face showing a great concentration of thought.
Jeff watching intently.
Stella picks up her bag, stares at Jeff's back a moment, then starts for the door.
Jeff swings half-way around in his chair just as Stella reaches the top of the steps.
She turns around.
Jeff points to a coat-stand near the door.
She puts down her bag, reaches for the binoculars, takes them out the case.
She comes down the stairs, brings them to him.
Stella sniffs, then goes to the door, as she says.
As Stella goes out the door, the CAMERA MOVES IN until Jeff's head, and the binoculars, are filling the screen.
He immediately swings to the window, and lifts them to his eyes.
The salesman has completed his cleaning of the case.
He is in the act of placing it on the floor.
Jeff quickly lowers the binoculars and edges back a few inches.
He watches a moment, then cautiously lifts the binoculars again.
He turns and again glances out of the window.
The man is now moving out of the living room, and the binoculars PAN him though to the small kitchen which is seen through a side window.
The man starts to busy himself in this kitchen with his back to us, but the image is very unsatisfactory.
Jeff lowers the binoculars and there is an expression of exasperation on his face.
He throws the binoculars down, and then looks about him.
He backs his chair up quickly toward the main cabinet on his left.
He leans down, opens a cupboard door and takes out a long-focus lens.
Then from a shelf above he takes a small Exacta camera.
He quickly takes off the existing lens and puts on the telephoto lens in its place.
He wheels himself back to the window and raises the camera to his eye.
Through the view-finder of the camera, we are now brought into close proximity with the salesman in his little kitchen.
His back is still to us.
He half-turns and takes a used newspaper.
He spreads it open, along the drainboard.
From the sink he takes out a large butcher's knife, and a long, narrow saw.
They disappear from sight as he lays them on the newspaper and proceeds to wrap them up.
Having completed his job, he emerges from the kitchen carrying the newspaper- wrapped parcel.
For a moment he is lost behind the wall that separates the kitchen recess from the living room.
Jeff lowers the camera for a moment, and watches tensely.
Suddenly he puts it up to his eye again.
Half of a man's body is now seen in the living room.
He sits down on a couch, with a display of fatigue.
He is not carrying anything.
Then the salesman turns and moves to the center of the room.
He yawns and stretches out of sight at full length on the couch.
Jeff lowers the camera.
He watches the living room for a moment.
Then his eye travels briefly back to the kitchen; then return to the living room.
The thermometer outside of Jeff's window, registering degrees.
The CAMERA PANS OFF to the left until it comes to rest on the song-writer's studio.
He is dressed only in bathing trunks, and is vigorously cleaning his rug with a carpet sweeper.
In the middle of his sweeping, he stops, hurries a step or two to the piano.
He plays a couple of notes with one hand, while he stands.
Listens, plays them again.
Decides they are no good, and returns to his carpet sweeping.
THE CAMERA PANS FARTHER LEFT to the salesman's apartment.
There are no lights burning behind the drawn shade of the bedroom, but the living room and the kitchen are lighted.
THE CAMERA CONTINUES ITS PAN to the left, to include the couple who sleep on the fire escape in the hot weather.
He is in the act of laying out the mattress.
His wife is slightly younger, peroxided, faded show girl type.
Also wearing pajamas, with a fluffy handkerchief in the left pocket, the wife is leaning over the railing holding onto the rope which leads to the dog's basket now on the floor of the courtyard.
We now get an opportunity to examine these people more closely.
The man is balding, and middle-aged.
Having been a one-time siffleuse, her call to the dog is clarion and melodic.
He is wearing striped pajamas.
The little dog emerges reluctantly from the shadows, and steps into the basket.
It begins to move upward, and THE CAMERA FOLLOWS it.
When the basket reaches the fire escape, THE CAMERA PANS ON to the apartment of Miss Torso.
She is in the bathroom brushing her long hair, while her thoughts seem to be far away.
THE CAMERA DROPS DOWN to the apartment below, occupied by the elderly lady with the hearing aid.
She is hard at work on a piece of abstract sculpture.
For the first time we see something of her activities inside the apartment.
She wears a short smock, although her legs are still bare.
It takes the form of a piece of mahogany through which a simple hole has been carved.
THE CAMERA MOVES ON much farther to the left, and eventually comes to rest on the newly-weds' apartment with the shade still drawn.
It MOVES ON and at last passes though Jeff's window, and comes to rest on the two bid heads of Jeff and Lisa.
Her lips are brushing lightly against his cheek as she speaks.
By her position, Lisa is seated on Jeff's sound knee, her arms around his neck.
She starts kissing him.
She gives up trying to interest him in romance, and moves back from the embrace.
Lisa stands, straightens out her dress, stretches a little then she turns to the divan, apparently not too interested in his observation about the salesman's life.
However, her expression is disturbed as she watches Jeff.
We are now able to see that Jeff's apartment is in darkness, only faintly lit from the distant light of the neighbors' window.
Jeff is thoughtful for a moment, then he relaxes and smiles a little.
Lisa stretches herself out on the divan.
Her head rest on the cushion at the far end, and she instinctively falls into an attractive pose.
Jeff moves his eyes slightly to something outside the window.
She is reading a book held in one hand, while eating a sandwich in another.
Miss Torso is lying, face down, on her divan bed.
The only light in the apartment is from a reading lamp.
Her back is bare, and all she wears is a pair of brief dark blue shorts.
At one point, she lifts her torso up slightly to brush crumbs out from beneath her.
Lisa leans forward and looks out the window to see what Jeff is referring to.
She turns back to him with a blank stare.
Jeff turns and looks at her, quite unaware of her surprise at his comment.
He looks away from Miss Torso, thoughtfully.
Lisa sits bolt upright on the divan.
She reaches back quickly and pulls on the overhead light.
He is beginning his song again, and it has taken on new fullness and melody.
At that moment the songwriter returns to his composing.
Although it is not complete, it is farther along then before, and he plays his theme a number of different ways, trying to move it note by note to its completion.
Lisa just stares at Jeff for a moment.
We can see him over Lisa's shoulder.
Jeff is staring out of the window again.
Over this we hear Lisa's voice.
Jeff puts out a restraining hand.
At last the salesman is seen coming along the corridor.
Slung over one shoulder, with his arm through is, is a large coil of sturdy rope.
He goes through the living room into the bedroom.
Jeff reaches quickly for his binoculars, and trains them on the salesman's apartment.
Lisa, still stretched out on the divan looking at Jeff, suddenly sits upright and then getting up from the divan, mover over to Jeff, THE CAMERA GOING WITH her.
In a sudden surprise move, she swings his chair completely around so that his back is to the window.
He drops the binoculars into his lap in surprise.
THE CAMERA MOVES IN as Lisa leans over Jeff, gripping both sides of his chair.
Jeff tries to turn around, but she won't let the chair move.
She turns the wheelchair slightly to her left so that he can see the newlyweds' apartment.
A dim light burning behind them.
The drawn shades of the newlyweds' apartment.
Jeff looks, turns back to her, trying to suppress a chuckle.
She is still staring out the window, as the scene.
We see that his left hand rests on the telephone receiver which is close to him.
Jeff is seated in the dark, his face lit by the faint glow from the distant street.
He is looking out of the window tensely, as THE CAMERA MOVES IN, until he is in big profile.
From Jeff's viewpoint, all the windows are dark.
The salesman's apartment is dark as well.
Suddenly a match flares, and we see the salesman light a cigar.
The flame of the match illuminates his face for a moment.
The CAMERA is now facing Jeff.
As he talks, in a low voice, he keeps his eyes on the salesman's apartment.
Lisa also talks in a low, quiet voice.
We get an impression of Sixth Avenue behind Lisa at the phone.
Jeff is still looking toward the salesman's apartment.
He puts the receiver down, and resumes his vigil.
When is dies out, we see just the glow of the cigar burning.
All we can see is the glow of the salesman's cigar.
Jeff is seated by the window in his wheelchair.
He is talking on the telephone while his eyes are still on the neighborhood.
The CAMERA PULLS BACK slightly as Stella emerges from the kitchen.
She is carrying a tray with breakfast on it.
Stella squeezes past the right side of Jeff, and places the food tray on a windowseat in front of him.
There is a touch of urgency in his voice.
She peers out cautiously toward Thorwald's apartment for a moment.
Then she squeezes back, moving to the sideboard against which leans a small table on an adjustable stand.
Stella returns with the table, and sets it up so that it is across Jeff's lap.
She gets the tray of food pausing to look toward Thorwald's apartment.
Then she places the breakfast on the tray table in front of Jeff.
He has moved back a little to avoid getting the phone cable tangled in the food and dishes.
He hangs up.
Eggs, bacon, toast and coffee.
She moves behind his chair, pausing to look toward Thorwald's apartment again.
He looks at the breakfast, reaches for a knife and fork.
Jeff is just lifting a piece of bacon to his lips when Stella speaks.
He begins eating, appreciatively.
The hand carrying the bacon to Jeff's mouth hesitates for a moment.
Again the bacon stops before is reaches Jeff's mouth.
He puts it down on the plate again, as his eyes move slightly toward the left.
The hand holding the bacon moves back to the plate.
Jeff just stares ahead.
Thorwald's apartment.
Thorwald's apartment.
The shades up.
We are now aware that the salesman is now in his living room, lying out of sight on the sofa, because the smoke from a newly lighted cigar is starting to ascend toward the ceiling of his room.
The rope-tied trunk still sits in the bedroom.
Jeff's eyes, over the coffee cup, are staring intently at the backyard.
His eyes stray in an upward direction as he puts down the coffee cup.
Stella turns and walks into the kitchen.
Jeff's eyes moves down again.
Abstractedly his hand strays toward the piece of bacon.
Jeff pushes the food away, and picks up the coffee cup instead.
Miss Torso, in ballet outfit, is hanging up a small wash on a clothes line.
She is doing her inevitable leg practice at the same time.
It consists mostly of lingerie.
Jeff seems to be getting a bit listless, or bored, by constantly watching Thorwald's apartment.
His eyes sort of stray around the neighborhood, and end up looking toward.
Shade down, business as usual.
The newlywed's apartment.
Jeff smiles affectionately, and starts to turn his eyes away; but something startles him, and he looks quickly back.
The shade suddenly going up in the newlywed's apartment.
The young husband leans his hands on the windowsill, and looks out.
He looks around with some satisfaction.
He is wearing only his pajama bottoms, because of the heat, and we see that he is a well-muscled, attractive young man.
Jeff's head snaps toward the center of his window.
Stella has appeared behind his wheelchair.
Two men wearing tan coveralls are standing outside Thorwald's door.
He leads the two man across the living room to the bedroom.
One of them carries a clipboard.
His hair is disheveled and he is unshaved.
He opens it, and after a short exchange of dialogue, he admits the two men, leaving the door open behind them.
Stella and Jeff watching intently.
He is feeling down alongside his wheelchair for his binoculars.
A close view shows the two man carrying the trunk across the living room toward the corridor.
Jeff lowers the binoculars quickly.
Jeff turns quickly over his shoulder to watch her.
Stella moves toward the door quickly.
As Stella goes out the door, she calls back.
She is already going up the steps.
The salesman speaks some words to the operator.
Jeff lowers the binoculars a little, and takes a normal eye sight on the alleyway.
In momentarily blocks out the side of our freight truck.
By the time the two trucks part, we can only see the back half of the freight truck before it pulls out of sight.
Pulling across to the far side of the street we see the hood and cab of a freight truck.
Jeff quickly puts the glasses up.
The binoculars are held for a moment until we see a puffing and blowing Stella arrive at the opening of the alleyway.
By the time the binoculars are up, another truck has crossed from the left.
She looks toward the front of Thorwald's apartment house.
And by her attitude we can see that there is no truck outside.
She looks about her for a moment.
The figure of Stella is seen, looking up toward Jeff's apartment, and arms outspread in a helpless gesture.
Jeff lowers the binoculars, discouraged.
He lowers the glasses, and turns to Jeff.
SHOOTING TOWARDS the big window, with the neighborhood beyond, Jeff is as usual seated in his wheelchair on the left of the window, but now turned toward a newcomer.
The second man is standing near the divan looking out the window with the binoculars.
This newcomer is POLICE DETECTIVE LIEUTENANT THOMAS J.
DOYLE, the man Jeff phoned earlier in the day.
He has a sense of humor.
Jeff lifts his hand in a feeble parting gesture.
He is an intelligent-appearing, well-dressed modern detective.
Doyle paces a little.
He goes up the steps to the door, putting on his hat.
He pauses his hand on the door knob.
From Doyle's viewpoint.
Jeff answers, showing only the slightest irritation.
Doyle, still at the door.
He starts to go out the door, and closes it behind him.
Doyle becomes interested in watching something out the window.
Miss Torso, in ballet costume, practicing her dance on the outside balcony.
She is exciting and desirable.
He even smiles somewhat secretly to himself at what he sees.
Jeff smiles at catching Doyle enjoying Miss Torso.
Jeff notices Doyle's interest.
Startled at being observed, Doyle moves quickly away from the window, affecting nonchalance.
Jeff's face grows serious.
Doyle quickly collects his thoughts, and gets back to the case at hand.
THE CAMERA MOVES BACK as Doyle returns to his drink.
He moves to the sideboard, picks up a felt hat.
He pulls a slip of paper out of his pocket.
Jeff watches him intently.
He looks at Jeff with some smugness.
He puts on his hat, and goes toward the door.
THE CAMERA is concentrating on the long-focus lens camera which fills the screen.
Just beyond, there is a plate on which a solitary sandwich.
Jeff's hand comes in, picks it up.
We PAN US with the sandwich until Jeff's head fills the screen.
Jeff is sober.
(Except for a small light in the kitchen, Jeff's apartment is in darkness.) As he munches, he keeps his attention on the neighborhood.
THE CAMERA PANS slightly to the left, as we see the dog being lowered in its basket.
Thorwald's apartment is darkness.
The sun has just set.
We follow the basket down to the yard which brings Miss Lonely Heart's apartment into view.
She seems to be putting on the final touches of her make-up, prior to going out.
She is wearing a Kelly Green suit, and is seated at her dressing table.
Jeff looks down, he smiles to himself.
He turns, and we see him raise the long-focus camera to his eye.
The long-focus lens brings Miss Lonely Hearts into an enlarged picture which reveals details we have not previously noticed.
A pair of ill-fitting, horn-rimmed reading glasses rest half way down her nose, and she has to tilt her head back slightly as she applies lip-stick, with their aid.
Satisfied, she takes off the glasses, and examines her face as a whole, through squinting eyes.
Her hair-do makes her seem middle-aged.
She has faded good looks, has fairly nice clothes, but is badly in need of advice on hair dressing.
She reaches for a tall glass of liquor next to her, and takes a long drink.
Putting the glass down, she squints to see if she has disturbed the lipstick.
Unable to see clearly, she puts on the glasses again, looks, and touches up her lips slightly.
She puts her glasses in a handbag, then stands to put out the lights.
She walks into the living room, finishing the drink.
The long-focus lens moves with her.
She goes straight for a bottle of liquor, and pours out a final neat slug, and tosses it off.
Then she leaves the apartment, with a show of determination.
She turns out the lights behind her.
Jeff lowers the long-focus lens, and turns his head to the right as he hears the first notes of the songwriter's melody which we have heard him trying to complete.
He is in black tie, and from the looks of the apartment he is preparing for guests.
An attractive girl is setting out trays of canap s, glasses, ice and liquor.
She pauses as she crosses the room carrying a tray of food.
She listens a moment to the songwriter's melody.
She comments on it to the songwriter, who starts from the beginning again, playing it more fully.
Her expression shows that it pleases her, and moves her romantically.
Jeff's head turns in this new direction.
Miss Torso, and a male partner whom we have not seen before, are practicing a pas a deux.
A new source of music comes in to interfere with the piano playing.
It is orchestral ballet music, in a modern style.
He is a tall flowing-haired young man, lithe and graceful beyond normal masculine capacity.
They stop, at one point, to listen to a word of comment from a woman who is watching.
By her gestures, she is obviously a professional choreographer.
THE CAMERA PANS from this to the street beyond.
Standing there, on the sidewalk, looking up and down the street is a Kelly Green clad figure.
She seems to be trying to figure out what to do, or where to go.
She nervously looks at a couple of men passers by.
He quickly raises his long-focus camera to his eye.
We are now given a waist-high shot as the focus is adjustment by Jeff.
The figure is that of Miss Lonely Hearts.
Getting no reaction, she crosses the street, and seats herself at an empty table in front of the cafe.
She orders a drink.
She is suddenly blotted out by a figure of a man who enters the picture from the left side.
It is Thorwald, carrying a light-weight cardboard box under his arm.
THE CAMERA PANS him over to the right until he is lost behind the building.
He is much nearer the lens, because he is on this side of the street.
He is, therefore, slightly out of focus.
He lowers the lens, and we see Jeff's eyes travel across the screen, as he imagines Thorwald's progression.
Then sharpening his look, he picks up the long-focus lens, and easing himself back cautiously, begins watching Thorwald.
Thorwald comes up the corridor, and stands unlocking his door.
As he hesitates, we are able to see the cardboard box he is carrying has the name of a laundry on it.
He enters the apartment turns on the living room lights.
He proceeds to the bedroom, and the lights go on there.
A number of suits and top coats are lying on an orderly pile on the bed.
He takes the laundry out of the box and puts in on the bed next to the suits.
Then he goes to the dresser, and instead of putting the laundry away, he proceeds to take out the contents of the drawers -- pajamas, shirts, sox, etc.
He piles these on the beds.
Jeff lowers the camera quickly.
He picks up the phone and dials a number, still keeping his eyes on Thorwald.
The phone buzzes on filter, then is picked up and answered by a woman.
For a moment, Jeff looks desperate.
As he talks, thoughtfully, he takes some jewelry from the handbag -- a couple of rings, diamond wristwatch, brooch, pearls, etc.
He discusses each piece, apparently trying to make some decision.
Jeff lowers his camera lens and edges his chair forward in an effort to hear what Thorwald is saying.
The first four of the song-writer's guests come through the door, admitted by the song-writer's girl friend.
The song-writer dashes off a LOUD VAMP of greeting on the piano, then gets up to offer drinks.
Jeff turns his attention back to Thorwald, but gives up any attempt at listening.
He lift the long-focus lens up to his eyes again.
Having completed his call, Thorwald returns to the bedroom carrying the handbag.
He goes to a pile of coats lying on the bed.
He lifts the top two coats slightly, and slides the handbag under them and out of sight.
There is the SOUND of footsteps coming down the corridor to Jeff's apartment.
He lowers the camera lens, and turns his attention to his door.
The door opens, and Lisa stands silhouetted in the entrance, black-lighted by the corridor lights.
Jeff's head is turned toward her, his back more toward the neighborhood.
It's an attractive picture.
Jeff abruptly turns back to the window, as Lisa dashes into the picture behind him, and looks out.
The lights are out in Thorwald's bedroom, and Thorwald is in the act of pouring himself out a drink in the living room.
He comes to the window, glass in hand, and looks down into the garden, nonchalantly.
He stops, turns to her quickly.
Jeff turns back to the window.
Then he turns, puts his unfinished drink down on a table, and goes to the door.
Thorwald is standing at the window with his drink in his hand.
He puts the light out in the living room and goes out the door.
He walks briskly down the corridor.
He picks up the long-focus lens and trains it on the street intersection, as Lisa moves back to him.
The CAMERA PULLS BACK as Lisa starts around the apartment turning on the lights.
As she light increases, we see that she is wearing another extravagantly beautiful dress.
She seems quite animated, moving gracefully, her skirt and hair swinging with her movement.
Jeff turns around to face the room.
As he talks, she seems to be thinking something over to herself.
He starts pacing, trying to distill her thoughts.
We see that she has brought an oversized handbag with her, which lies prominently on the table.
Jeff watches her.
THE CAMERA CLOSES IN, Lisa stops, faces him.
THE CAMERA eases back.
She comes over to Jeff.
Her eyes sparkle, and her body is tense with concentration.
He pulls her into his lap.
She puts her arms around him.
She is very happy, and kisses Jeff's cheek.
Then Jeff moves back a little to look her straight in the eye.
There's a pause.
She cuts him off with a kiss.
Lisa smothers him with another kiss.
When she pulls back.
She lets up.
She smothers him with still another kiss.
Then moves back.
She laughs, gets up.
Goes to the large handbag on the table.
She comes to Jeff, sits in his lap again, displaying the inside of the case.
It is a Mark Cross ladies 'attache' case.
She has opened it, and surprisingly enough, it is a compact outfit of pajamas, slippers, toothbrush, toothpaste, and all the general necessities for a comfortable overnight stay.
She gets up from Jeff's lap, and puts the overnight case on the table.
She goes to the window, and looks toward the song-writers' apartment.
The party at the song-writer's has grow considerably larger.
An assortment of well-dressed people have now crowded into the studio.
They are drinking, eating, etc.
Lisa stands, listening, entranced.
Jeff watches her.
She sits down on the edge of the divan near Jeff.
She leans toward him.
Jeff's tension eases off a little, by he is eager to talk.
Doyle looks back toward Thorwald's bedroom.
We see the dark apartment beyond him.
He turns his head suddenly at the sound of Lisa coming out of the kitchen.
She is rotating them gently toward the body to warm the brandy.
She is quite beautiful.
She holds two large brandy snifters containing some brandy.
They are cupped in her hand, the stem between her fingers.
She continues rotating the brandy.
She comes forward hands one snifter to Jeff.
Doyle reacts to her appreciatively.
She offers the second to Doyle.
Doyle sort of smiles, and takes the snifter awkwardly.
Doyle bows his head slightly, but his eyes remain on her in a fixed stare.
Lisa smiles in return.
She turns around, and goes right back into the kitchen.
Doyle stares after her, ignoring her remark, still not recovered from the fist sight of her attractiveness.
Then quickly, his eyes move down and to the left.
The open overnight case with its displayed lingerie.
Slowly Doyle's eyes travel back to Jeff.
Quickly guessing what's on Doyle's mind.
Jeff picks up the phone.
He turns his head to Lisa, who answers.
Doyle looks suddenly interested.
He asks tersely.
His head snaps back to Jeff, who answers.
His head moves back to Lisa as she answers with a touch of pride in her voice.
Before Doyle can comment, Jeff asks impatiently.
Doyle smiles at Jeff, and then strolls over to the table where he puts out his cigarette and puts down the brandy snifter.
Doyle goes to the window and looks out, as they watch him, expectantly.
His voice is flat and to the point.
He speaks without looking at them.
Jeff and Lisa stare at him in astonishment.
Then Jeff recovers, and answers with some anger.
He starts to place the room.
He spins around, and his face has lost all its friendliness.
She replies with some sarcasm.
Lisa and Jeff.
Jeff, reasoning.
Lisa cuts in spiritedly.
Doyle starts to pace up and down, throwing out a hand in careful explanation.
Jeff is resentful of Doyle's comments to Lisa.
Doyle has turned away into the center of the room.
He swings around.
Lisa speaks again with continuing sarcasm.
Doyle comes toward the CAMERA again.
Doyle gives her a scathing look.
Jeff challenges Doyle.
Lisa answers, but very coldly.
Doyle hesitates a moment, and lets his eyes wander, to.
The overnight case, with Lisa's lingerie.
His eyes going back to Jeff.
Jeff replies, pointedly.
Lisa looks down at Jeff, not comprehending.
Doyle is wiping his coat lapels with a handkerchief.
Neither Jeff or Lisa display even the slightest friendliness.
Their faces are cold and set.
He looks at them pleasantly.
He starts away toward the door.
Lisa, still burning.
Then Lisa speaks, icily.
Doyle picks up his hat.
Doyle is relaxed.
Doyle poises on the step.
He snaps his fingers.
He starts up the steps to the door.
He puts on his hat, smiles, and says.
He quietly closes the door behind him.
Jeff turns his chair around, and looks out to the neighborhood.
Lisa and Jeff.
Lisa stands glumly behind him.
None of the gaiety is reflected in Lisa and Jeff.
It is a happy, gay affair.
The song-writer's party is now in full swing, and fairly crowded.
Miss Torso's apartment has the door closed, and all that we can see of her, as she is lying on the divan, is her legs swinging in arcs as she exercise to record music.
All during this, she has been staring out at Thorwald's apartment.
Lisa is not looking in the same direction as Jeff.
She murmurs to Jeff.
Now her eyes are looking at the apartment underneath.
Jeff turns his eyes in the same direction as hers.
Surprise of surprises, she has returned with a lover hooked.
He is much younger than she, and a little more keyed up to the promise of an adventure still fresh to him.
A light has gone on in Miss Lonely Hearts' apartment.
They look.
Her actions are coy, and over-feminine.
As she sips her drink and look at him over the rim of the glass, he tosses his off with nervous dispatch.
He moves toward her, this time more cautiously.
An embrace, a long kiss.
He begins kissing her cheek, her ear, her neck.
Suddenly and fiercely she pushes him away.
Slaps him across the face.
He moves back with shock as she loudly and emphatically orders him out, out, out.
He flushes with anger and embarrassment, and his mouth twists into unpleasant shapes as he slaps degrading words back at her, telling her what she is.
She screams at him to get out.
He leaves, slamming the door behind him.
She goes back dumbly to the spilled liquor, makes a futile effort to clean it up, and the collapses onto the rug sobbing hard enough to shake her whole body.
Lisa turns away from Jeff's chair to get a cigarette from the table.
Jeff is sitting on the wheelchair near the bar, a drink in his hand.
He starts to take a sip from the glass, when Lisa comes out of the kitchen.
She is an ethereal beauty, in sheer peach nightgown, covered by a gossamer matching kimono.
She turns gracefully in front of Jeff.
He lowers his drink.
Instead of increasing her sobbing, this news quiets, momentarily, the woman who owned the dog.
Her hands go down to the railing of the fire escape, gripping it fiercely.
The guests at the song-writer's party begin to move silently back to the studio apartment.
The people move off their balcony into the apartment.
The woman almost screams at the people now, as she looks up at the apartment.
The husband leans over the fire-escape, and motions Miss Lonely Hearts to place the dog in the basket, which is already lowered.
Miss Lonely Hearts puts the dog in the basket, and watches as the husband draws it slowly up.
The dog moves closer to the fire escape, slowly, the husband pulling the rope in hand over hand.
The dog reaches the fire escape, and the husband tenderly takes it out of the basket.
She breaks out sobbing anew, and returns to her apartment and out of sight, the crying growing fainter with her retreat.
He turns to carry it's into the apartment.
The newlyweds draw their shades again.
The landlord moves away from the window.
Miss Torso goes back to her apartment.
Miss Hearing Aid turns down the volume of her hearing aid and goes back to her apartment.
Jeff and Lisa are at the window.
He is holding on of hands.
Jeff speaks without looking up.
Thorwald's apartment.
The only light that can be seen in it is the glowing end of a cigar in the center of the room, back from the window -- as if Thorwald was sitting quietly on his sofa, smoking.
Lisa looks down at Jeff.
He nods solemnly and then turns back to the window, as both he and Lisa look again towards.
Still dark, and only the unmoving glow of a cigar showing in the center of the apartment.
Thorwald's apartment.
Jeff, Stella and Lisa are grouped at the window, looking out.
THE CAMERA is behind them.
Jeff holds the long-focus lens to his eye.
In the bathroom, Thorwald is wiping the enameled wall with a damp cloth.
He rubs at particular spots now and then.
We wee the upper part of the bedroom window, belonging to Thorwald.
The lower part of the window is covered by a wall.
Over this we hear.
Jeff lowers the camera with a long- focus lens.
We now see their faces.
Neither he nor Lisa make any comment.
Finally Stella blurts out.
Lisa turns away from the window.
Stella also turns, interrupting her.
Jeff, who is still staring out the window, has a look of sudden discovery on his face.
He calls quickly.
He turns halfway around, and points.
We see Lisa moving behind him toward the shelf.
He adds.
He turns back to the window, holding out his right hand to the side, waiting for the box and viewer.
The CAMERA PULLS BACK a little as Lisa comes up, and places the box and viewer in his hand.
He opens the box, which contains color slides, and holds one or two of the slides up to the light.
Lisa looks down at him curiously and Stella comes forward from the background.
He squints out through the viewer, then looks away a moment without it.
He looks back through the viewer.
He takes the viewer from his eye, hands it to Lisa.
Lisa raises the viewer to her eye.
Through the viewer we see the identical view out of the window.
The viewer moves away, and we are left with the identical scene, but not quite so still, a slight breeze stirring the foliage.
Jeff looks up to a puzzled Lisa.
All three ease back in awe.
Lisa, still looking out, says.
Suddenly Stella begins to chuckle.
Her face sobers as she answers their unasked question.
Jeff looks at Stella.
Halfway through Lisa's speech, Jeff begins speaking.
Lisa suddenly appears at the ground floor door below Thorwald's.
She hides, pressing back against the wall tensely.
In the corridor above, Thorwald returns, frustrated.
He comes out onto the fire escape directly above Lisa.
She is aware of him, and immediately retreats into the doorway.
She disappears down the lower corridor, as Thorwald searches his fire escape.
There is a sigh of relief from both of them.
Jeff hands it to her.
Stella's brow knits a little as she sees something.
She reaches for the long focus lens.
She lifts it to her eye.
She has opened a small brown bottle, and taken out four red capsules which she places on the white table cloth of her little table.
Miss Lonely Hearts' apartment.
There is a candle burning in a holder, and other lamps also light the apartment.
She is dressed in sedate street clothes.
She seems quite at peace.
She sits at the table, and by the light of the candle proceeds to open a black-covered book, and read it.
The print is fine.
She bends over it a moment, looks up at the capsules, and returns to the book.
Stella and Jeff are heard over.
She comes down the stairs.
As Lisa comes up to the two of them.
Jeff and Stella turn toward the window.
Jeff grabs the long- focus lens, lifts it up.
Thorwald has the new alligator bag belonging to his wife, in his hand.
He moves slowly across the bedroom, out of sight behind the door.
In a moment he reappears, moving back to his packing.
He puts the handbag into one of the suitcases -- the one which he has almost completed filling.
He goes on with his packing.
Jeff puts down the long-focus lens, and turns around toward the room.
The two women watch him expectantly.
Stella lifts her left hand, and looks fondly at her ring finger.
Jeff looks at them aghast.
Lisa moves for the phone book on the stand near the kitchen.
Lisa hands him the book.
Jeff looks for Thorwald's number in the directory.
The two women smile.
Jeff picks up the phone and dials Chelsea The women watch him tensely.
Lisa looks toward Thorwald's apartment; then Stella; then Jeff.
Thorwald's apartment.
He comes out of the bedroom toward the phone.
He wears a light summer coat and tie, despite the heat.
He holds the receiver away from his ear a little, and the buzzer is heard sounding on filter.
In the bedroom, everything is packed with the exception of one open suitcase.
He approaches the phone hesitantly, undecided whether or not to answer it.
Quickly Thorwald does pick it up.
There is a pause as Thorwald gropes for an answer.
Thorwald looks at the receiver a moment, then he slowly hangs up.
He hangs up before Thorwald can reply.
He stands at the phone thinking.
Then he makes up his mind and starts for the door.
After he goes out he tests the door to make certain it is locked.
Jeff turns his wheelchair halfway around as Lisa and Stella start quickly for the door, THE CAMERA PANNING THEM across the room.
They pause at the sound of Jeff's voice.
Jeff calls after them.
The door slams off and we hear the footsteps of the women dying down the corridor as Jeff picks up the long-focus lens and takes a sight on the alleyway.
Thorwald goes past the alley opening.
Jeff puts down the lens and wheels quickly to the wall cabinet.
He finds a box of flash bulbs and a reflector.
He puts them in his lap and returns to the window, putting the chair sideways.
He leans out a little and looks down.
Lisa is in the courtyard directly below Jeff's window.
She has reached the stairway leading up and to the right.
She looks, waves at Jeff as Stella comes up to her carrying a shovel.
The two women hurry up the stairs toward the iron ladder they will use to climb the wall between Jeff's yard and that of Thorwald's.
Lisa has climbed over the wall and is helping Stella down into Thorwald's yard.
Jeff picks up the phone and quickly dials.
The buzzer sounds on filter, then the phone is lifted.
A woman's voice is heard and Jeff seems a little puzzled at the sound of it.
He squints out the window.
Jeff's conversation continues over the action of the two women.
Apparently no sight of Thorwald.
He looks quickly toward the intersection and then right back to Lisa.
The shovel is lying on the ground beside Lisa.
Stella has abandoned the shovel and left the flowers and dirt strewn over the walk.
Jeff, tense and wide-eyed, watches Lisa climb the fire escape.
While Lisa starts up the fire escape, we see Stella running toward the wall in the foreground to climb over it.
Lisa climbs the fire escape to the second floor and the outside of Thorwald's apartment.
She tries, unsuccessfully, to get through the window which opens into the kitchen from the fire escape.
And then, with some difficulty, stretches and succeeds in getting in through the living room window, which is open.
She goes directly to the bedroom and we see her bending over one of the suitcases.
Jeff quickly picks up the long-focus lens and trains it on the salesman's apartment.
Lisa turns from the suitcase with the alligator handbag in her hand.
There is an expression of triumph on her face.
She opens it and her expression changes to dismay.
She looks toward Jeff's apartment and, to communicate her dismay, she turns the handbag upside down.
Empty.
He lowers the long-focus lens and he is sweating with anxiety.
He mutters, almost to himself.
His eyes turn quickly to the alleyway and back again to Lisa.
She moves quickly to the dresser and begins opening the drawers to check them.
Lisa has dropped the bag on the bed and is now looking around the bedroom, looking for some place to start searching for the jewelry.
She finds nothing.
As Jeff watches tensely, the door bursts open behind him and Stella hurries into the apartment.
Jeff swings toward Stella.
He reaches for the phone.
As he picks up the receiver, Stella pushes his hand down again.
Stella looks out the window and her face registers shock.
Jeff turns quickly to the window again, forgetting the phone for the moment.
Jeff and Stella turn for a quick glimpse of the song-writer's apartment.
At this moment, from the song- writer's apartment which has been quiet for a while, comes a new burst of melody.
A quick flash of the song-writer's apartment, and his musical group gathered around the piano.
Miss Lonely Hearts lifts her head to listen, and slowly lowers the pills and glass of water into her lap, her whole purpose arrested by the beauty of what she hears.
Thorwald at the door, unlocking it with his key.
Lisa dashes back into the bedroom just in time to avoid being seen by Thorwald as he opens the door and enters the apartment.
Stella staring out, tense, frightened.
The Policeman on the phone repeats with studied irritation.
Then her expression changes sharply as she looks slightly to the left.
The first policeman indicates that Lisa is to come along with him.
He pauses momentarily to tell the second policeman to take a statement from Thorwald about the attempted burglary.
The second policeman reaches for the jewelry in Thorwald's hand, and takes it for examination.
In the brief pause while the two policemen speak to each other, Lisa starts to wave her left hand behind her back.
Jeff looking through his camera.
She stops waving and holds her fingers spread out.
We get a closer view of the waving hand.
With her other hand she points to the wedding ring on her left hand.
THE LENS PANS UPWARD AND ACROSS until it brings Thorwald's profile into the picture.
He is looking down directly at Lisa's hands.
His head slowly turns, and he looks right up -- directly into the lens.
Suddenly he becomes aware that Lisa is signaling to someone who is watching him.
Jeff and Stella.
He drops the camera into his lap.
Stella hurries from the window, turning off lights, as Jeff backs his chair into the room.
As Thorwald's attention is drawn back to the second policeman to answer further questions, the first policeman takes Lisa by the arm and leads her out of the apartment.
Jeff points to a drawer in the wall cabinets.
The last light out, Stella stops to catch her breath, and turns to Jeff.
Stella moves to get it.
She finds a billfold, hands it to Jeff.
He takes it, extracts some bills and begins counting them.
He looks up sharply at her, and then without comment goes back to counting the money.
As he counts, Stella comments.
Jeff does, as Stella gets her purse.
We see Thorwald leave his apartment and proceed down the corridor.
Stella goes up to the door.
Jeff grabs it, picks it up.
Stella pauses.
He hangs up, and just as he does, Jeff looks toward Thorwald's apartment.
He seems a little puzzled by what he sees.
Thorwald's apartment.
Completely dark.
Thorwald steps to the top of the stairs, and is now somewhat visible.
Jeff still doesn't speak.
He moves forward a couple of steps.
He grips the flash holder a little more tightly, lifts it just the fraction of an inch as if he is prepared to use it.
Thorwald has advanced to the middle of the room, his eyes on Jeff and his hands clenching with the effort to control his anger.
He advances a step.
Thorwald comes down the two steps, pauses at the bottom.
Miss Lonely Hearts is standing in the yard outside her apartment, looking up to the porch of Miss Torso.
Thorwald fights to dislodge Jeff's grip.
Looking down on Jeff's face, showing his strain and the pain of Thorwald's attack.
Doyle pulling himself to the top of the wall.
From Doyle's viewpoint, Jeff hanging out the window and Thorwald hammering at his hands and arms with bare fists.
Thorwald and Jeff struggling.
Doyle reaches the top of the wall, looks up at Jeff.
Jeff, as seen from Doyle's angle, hanging, somehow weathering Thorwald's insane attack.
Jeff's grip begins to slip.
Lisa is white-faced and frightened.
He opens his eyes.
Winces with pain.
Doyle then looks up to the detective.
Stella tugs at Doyle's arm and stands on tiptoe to whisper something into his ear.
Doyle turns quizzically at Stella.
Beginning on Jeff's window thermometer, the CAMERA PANS FROM RIGHT TO LEFT around the neighborhood.
In the songwriter's apartment we see the songwriter with a guest -- Miss Lonely Hearts.
The songwriter is placing the first recording of his new song on a record player for her to hear.
Both in dress and manner she seems quite happy and adjusted to life.
It is a full symphonic arrangement which is heard over.
Thorwald's apartment is empty, stripped of its furnishings.
Two painters are repainting the walls.
The siffleuse and her husband are on their fire escape, training a new white dog to ride in their basket.
Miss Torso is practicing her ballet again.
She wears a white leotard.
The sound of someone at the door interrupts her.
She goes to the door, opens it an inch or two cautiously.
When she sees who is outside, she throws open the door.
An innocuous, unhandsome and somewhat shy army private enters with a barracks bag slung over one shoulder.
She kisses him fondly after closing the door.
He puts down the barracks bag, tosses his hat into a chair and, with the attitude of a man who belongs there, goes to the icebox to see what's to eat.
The newlyweds are arguing.
The CAMERA PANS past Jeff who is asleep in his wheelchair facing away from the window.
CAMERA MOVES DOWN to the lower part of his body and we see that both his legs are now in casts.
The CAMERA LIFTS SLIGHTLY to show Lisa sitting on the sofa nearby.
She wears Levis and a plaid cotton shirt.
She is reading a book on travel.
She looks up briefly at Jeff.
When she realizes he is asleep, she puts down the travel book and reaches for the latest copy of Harper's Bazaar.
She settles down to study it as we.
The fellas crack up.
They all mutter equivalents.
Joe stands up.
Mr. Blonde shoots Mr. White with his finger.
Everybody whips out a buck, and throws it on the table.
Everybody, that is, except Mr. Pink.
Everybody laughs.
They all laugh.
They all laugh.
Mr. Pink rubs two of his fingers together.
They all laugh.
Joe's comes back to the table.
The Somebody screaming is Mr. Orange.
He lies in the backseat.
He's been SHOT in the stomach.
BLOOD covers both him and the backseat.
Mr. White is the Somebody Else.
He's behind the wheel of the getaway car.
Though he's driving for his life, he keeps talking to his wounded passenger in the backseat.
They are the only two in the car.
Then the door swings open, and Mr. White carries the bloody body of Mr. Orange inside.
Mr. Orange still is MOANING loudly from his bullet hit.
Mr. White lays him down upon a mattress on the floor.
Mr. Orange looks up at his friend.
Mr. White gets Mr. Orange in a HEADLOCK.
Mr. Blonde sits on a counter, drinking a fast food coke and eating a hot dog.
Mr. Pink sees Mr. Orange on the floor, shot and bloody.
Mr. Orange lays his head back on the mattress.
The two men end up on the floor KICKING and SCRATCHING.
The camera creeps along a wall, coming to a corner.
At the end of the hall is a bathroom.
Mr. Pink is obscured, but Mr. White is in view.
Mr. White turns to leave.
Guns FIRING, people SHOUTING and SCREAMING, sirens WAILING.
Mr. Pink tries to open the driver's side door, but it's locked.
The Shocked Woman starts screaming.
He looks to Mr. Pink.
Mr. Pink exits frame, leaving Mr. White alone.
The men share a laugh.
We follow behind him up to Mr. White, who's standing over Mr. Orange.
As he gets closer he sees Mr. Orange is out.
Mr. White stands up and walks over to a table.
Mr. Pink reaches in his jacket for his gun, and pulls it out.
Mr. White sees this, immediately lets go of Mr. Pink, and goes for his own weapon.
The two men are with their guns outstretched, aiming at one another.
Mr. Blonde looks at his two partners in crime.
Mr. White explodes, raising his gun and charging towards Mr. Blonde.
Mr. White calms down and puts his gun away.
Mr. Blonde stops moving.
Mr. Blonde heads for the door.
The other two men just follow him with their eyes.
Mr. Blonde walks out.
Mr. Blonde is walking towards the car he drove.
Mr. White and Mr. Pink are walking behind.
In the background we see what looks like an office set up.
Joe is behind his desk.
Joe looks at Vic.
Vic swallows some Remy.
Joe walks back around his desk and sits in his chair.
Vic gets out of his seat and hugs Eddie.
Eddie bobs his head up and down.
Mr. Blonde calmly sits down.
Nice Guy Eddie is driving to the rendezvous talking on his portable car phone.
Mr. White, Mr. Pink and Mr. Blonde surround him and proceed to beat the shit out of him.
The three men are stomping the cop into the ground.
They are completely disheveled, hair a mess, shirttails out.
The robbers have the cop tied to a chair and are still WAILING on him.
Eddie steps inside the warehouse.
Nice Guy Eddie walks in and everybody jumps.
Nice Guy sees Mr. Orange.
Mr. White crosses to Mr. Blonde.
Eddie, Mr. White and Mr. Pink walk out of the warehouse talking amongst themselves.
He then slowly turns his head towards the cop.
Mr. Blonde slowly walks toward the cop.
He SLAPS the cop's face.
He puts a piece of tape over the cop's mouth.
The cop moves around wildly.
Freddy finishes his playing possum piss, and walks past the sheriffs over to the sink.
He looks down and watches Freddy wash his hands.
Mr. Blonde walks away from the cop.
He opens a razor.
He turns on the radio.
Mr. Blonde just sings along with Stealer's Wheel.
Mr. Blonde just stares into the cop's face, holding the razor, singing along with the song.
Then, like a cobra, he LASHES out.
A SLASH across the face.
Then he reaches out and CUTS OFF the cop's ear.
Mr. Blonde holds the ear up to the cop to see.
We follow Mr. Blonde as he walks out of the warehouse.
He opens the trunk, pulls out a large can of gasoline.
He walks back inside the warehouse carrying the can of gas.
Mr. Blonde POURS the gasoline all over the cop, who's BEGGING him not to do this.
Mr. Blonde LIGHTS up a match.
The gun-shot Mr. Orange looks at the kid's GASHED face and the hole in the side of his head where his ear used to be.
Marvin starts to weep.
We see Mr. Orange, now known as FREDDY NEWENDYKE, wearing a high school letterman jacket, enter the coffee shop, spot Holdaway, and head his way.
We see through the window of the restaurant Freddy slide into the booth to Holdaway.
Holdaway is listening to Freddy.
Holdaway just looks at his pupil for a moment, then smiles.
Freddy paces back and forth, in and out of frame, rehearsing the anecdote.
He's reading it pretty good, but he's still reading it from the page, and every once in a while he stumbles over his words.
Freddy enters frame from the same direction he exited in the previous scene, finishing his sentence.
When we move to a wider shot we see Freddy performing his monologue to Holdaway in a parking lot.
Freddy paces back and forth as he performs his story.
Freddy, Joe, Nice Guy Eddie and Mr. White all sit around a table in a red-lighted smokey bar.
Freddy standing in front of six Los Angeles County Sheriffs and one German Shepherd.
All of their eyes are on Freddy.
Everyone is frozen.
Freeze frame shot of Freddy standing in front of the sheriffs.
A slow around Freddy in the men's room.
CAMERA does a around the men.
The dog is barking.
One sheriff yells at the dog.
The dog quiets down.
A couple of the sheriffs look over at Freddy off screen, but as Sheriff #2 talks, turn their attention to him.
Sheriff #2 continues with his story.
SHOT of Sheriffs talking.
THE CAMERA PANS away from the sheriffs to Freddy, up against the urinal, playing possum, pretending to piss.
THE CAMERA PANS with him.
A sheriff is sitting on a sink.
Freddy finishes washing his hands.
He goes to dry them, but there's only those hand drying machines.
Freddy turns on the drying machine.
CLOSEUP - His HANDS, rubbing each other getting blown dry.
Mr. Orange looking from left to right.
Machine turns off.
Freddy turns and walks out of the room.
Joe lights a cigar.
Freddy answers it, we FOLLOW the receiver up to his face.
CLOSEUP - Nice Guy Eddie speaking into the car phone.
Nice Guy places the receiver back in its cradle.
The CAMERA follows Freddy as he hops around the apartment getting everything he needs.
He puts on his jacket.
He exits FRAME.
From inside an unmarked car across the street, the TWO COPS watching Freddy see him walk out of his building and up to Eddie's parked car.
Freddy gets into the car and it pulls into traffic.
Nice Guy Eddie is behind the wheel.
Mr. Pink is in the passenger seat.
The car laughs.
The car reacts to how horrible that would be.
The car reacts badly.
The car laughs.
CAMERA TRACKS ACROSS men's faces.
Joe points a finger.
Everybody laughs.
CAMERA leaves the team and goes to the blackboard with the layout of the jewelry store on it.
We see the outside of the jewelry store.
A car whips around the corner, into the alley.
The doors BURST open, Mr. White hop out.
The alley is empty.
Freddy opens the side door.
He RUNS to the end of the alley just as a police car comes into SIGHT.
Mr. White loads his two .automatics.
Mr. Brown lifts his head up, blood in his eyes.
FIRING both .45's, Mr. White massacres everyone in the patrol car.
A bloody Mr. Brown FALLS out.
The CAMERA moves into a CLOSEUP of Nice Guy Eddie.
There's a long pause while he rolls over what Mr. Orange has said.
Mr. Pink walks over to the cop's body.
Eddie steps out of his CLOSEUP and we see Joe Cabot standing in the warehouse doorway.
He walks into the room.
Joe looks down at Mr. Orange.
He WHIPS out a revolver and aims it at Mr. Orange.
Mr. White brings his .up at Joe.
Eddie raises his gun, pointing it at Mr. White.
Mr. Pink walking backwards away from the action.
Mr. White pointing at Joe, looking like he's ready to start firing any minute.
Eddie scared shitless for his father, gun locked on Mr. White.
Joe FIRES three times, HITTING Mr. Orange with every one.
Eddie FIRES at Mr. White, HITTING him three times in the chest.
The two men FALL to their knees, FIRING at each other.
Mr. White brings his gun around on Eddie and SHOOTS him.
Mr. White SHOOTS Joe twice in the face.
Eddie COLLAPSES, dead.
Joe brings his hands up to his face, screaming, and falls to the ground.
Joe's dead.
Mr. Orange lies perfectly still, except for his chest heaving.
Mr. White is SHOT full of holes, but still on his knees, not moving.
Mr. Pink is standing motionless.
Finally he grabs the satchel of diamonds and RUNS out the door.
Mr. White tries to stand but FALLS DOWN.
He somehow makes it to where Mr. Orange lies.
Mr. Orange looks up at him.
Mr. White lifts his .and places the barrel between Mr. Orange's eyes.
The CAMERA MOVES into an EXTREME CLOSEUP of Mr. White.
Mr. White is BLOWN out of frame, leaving it empty.
Fatigue overwhelms him, but he continues writing.
In the driveway, old Evan plays with CRICKETT, a frisky cocker spaniel puppy.
Andrea, wearing a mechanic's jumpsuit, works impatiently on the carburetor of a Toyota Celica.
Evan pets the dog as he watches his mother work.
Evan impatiently watches Andrea turn the bolt.
The carburetor will not set properly.
Evan blows Andrea a kiss goodbye and runs into the school.
As Andrea pulls away, MRS. BOSWELL, 35, taps the car window.
The classroom is filled with screaming, running children.
Mrs. Boswell enters the classroom with Andrea and immediately calls out to TOMMY, a tough seven-year old kid who swings a whiffle bat at LENNY, now seven, a sniffling, chubby kid.
Evan is surprised to see his mother enter with Mrs. Boswell, but continues playing with Kayleigh, now seven, a quiet, sweet-looking girl.
Mrs. Boswell leads Andrea over to the teacher's desk.
Mrs. Boswell opens the bottom drawer of her desk and pulls out a drawing.
Andrea turns to stone when she sees it.
The drawing shows a child holding a bloody knife while standing on a heap of dead bodies.
Some of the corpses have been cut open and the insides are surprisingly anatomically correct.
Andrea sees Evan playing with Lenny, harmless as a bunny, and struggles to control her concern.
Andrea is visibly shaken now.
Andrea leads Evan into Dr. Redfield's office.
Evan busily writes in his new black-marble mead comp book.
Andrea, meanwhile, speaks into the phone as she pours Lucky Charms into a cereal bowl for Evan.
Andrea hangs up the phone and walks into the next room.
Andrea grabs the pocket book off the coffee table and heads back into the kitchen.
She drops her purse in shock when she sees: Evan, in doorway, expressionless and holding a large BUTCHER KNIFE by his side.
Evan sees her but remains expressionless.
He seems stunned to find himself holding the knife and drops it.
Andrea, still shaken, drops Evan off at the house of GEORGE MILLER, 35, a handsome athletic man with an infectious smile.
He approaches the car and opens the door for Evan.
Andrea writes nervously on a piece of paper as Evan gets out.
Evan nods and sticks his arms straight up in the air.
The rec-room/basement.
Miller's camera lens and finally to Kayleigh, whose ashen face trembles slightly.
Panic spreads across Evan's face.
Dr. Redfield leads Evan inside.
Evan takes a seat at a long rectangular table.
His eyes are fixated on the door on the other side of the room.
Finally, a dark figure can be seen through the opaque glass.
JASON, thirty and haggard looking, enters the room.
Evan's eyes fixate on the leg-restraints and handcuffs that hinder Jason's movement.
Finally Jason sits.
He smiles warmly and speaks in over-enunciated tones.
Rather than seeing his father across a table, he's looking up at a ceiling.
Blocking his view of the ceiling is Jason, whose face is now monstrous with rage, and whose cuffed hands are wrapped around Evan's throat, choking the life out of him.
Jason wrestles the baton from under his chin, hits an orderly in the kneecap and comes for Evan with the baton! Orderly #2 acts quickly, beating Jason with his baton.
Andrea hugs Evan, now in shock.
All eyes turn to Evan as he takes his lit cigarette, breaks off the filter and jams the fuse into the unlit end.
Lenny paces back and forth next to the three-story mailbox, desperately trying to appear nonchalant.
He pretends to notice his shoe's untied and bends down to tie it.
From the woods, the other kids watch anxiously.
Finally, Lenny throws the bomb in the mailbox.
Then sprints like hell to the woods.
Kayleigh shakes Lenny's inhaler and hands it to him when he gets back.
Evan pats Lenny on the back.
The four watch the mailbox in intense anticipation.
Evan smiles with the cigarette pressed tightly between his lips and places his hands over Kayleigh's ears.
She smiles back at him and presses his hands against her head.
Tommy catches this and seems disturbed, and quickly turns back to -- The mailbox.
He instantly loses his footing and falls to the ground.
Lenny, falling on top of him.
Evan gets up and starts running, then realizes he's not being followed.
Kayleigh and Tommy are helping Lenny up and carrying him.
Evan realizes that Lenny's completely dazed.
Evan doubles back, grabs Lenny's arm and he and Tommy drag Lenny through the woods as fast as they can.
Lenny's mother, Mrs. Kagan, frantically loads Lenny into an ambulance.
Andrea turns to Evan, now trembling on the front stoop.
Evan looks helpless.
Evan lies on a couch.
Andrea suppresses the tiniest of proud smiles.
Evan's eyes suddenly roll back in his head.
Evan moans and begins shaking.
Evan moans and shakes on the couch.
Blood begins to trickle from Evan's nose as a guttural sound is uttered from deep within him.
Andrea moves to stop the blood flowing from Evan's nose.
Kayleigh, repulsed, suddenly darts from the aisle and runs out.
Evan follows.
Evan follows her to a small alcove.
She begins to cry.
He reaches to comfort her.
But she winces.
Kayleigh pulls back her shirt collar to show an even larger, darker bruise.
She looks into his eyes.
They lean into each other for a TENDER KISS.
They jerk back to see Tommy, shocked and betrayed, staring at them from across a small crowd.
Tommy rushes through the small crowd at Evan.
Suddenly a FOOT reaches out and trips Tommy.
Tommy falls to the floor and the crowd cackles at him.
Tommy slowly gets up, locks eyes with Evan.
Evan looks guilty, weakly shaking his head, it's not what you're thinking.
Tommy suddenly lunges at the TEEN PUNK who must be at least a foot taller than he is.
Tommy lands a flurry of punches before the Teen Punk can even defend himself, frequently taking opportunities to eyeball Evan.
Evan, Kayleigh and even the punk's FRIENDS look on helplessly when TWO SECURITY GUARDS SEIZE TOMMY.
As Tommy is being dragged away, he turns to Evan, a sick smile on his face.
Evan and Kayleigh look back, speechless.
Andrea drives through the winding roads.
Andrea's eyes Tormented.
REVEAL she's driving Evan and Kayleigh home.
Evan's up front and Kayleigh sits behind them.
Everyone silent.
Andrea, in her nurse uniform, exits the house to her car.
Evan discreetly watches her leave through the window.
Kayleigh and Evan walk down toward the house.
As a station wagon rolls up the street, Evan and Kayleigh duck in nearby bushes.
The station wagon finally heads into the driveway.
Lenny looks back at the model airplane.
Evan, Lenny and Kayleigh pass a junk pile in the woods.
As Evan and Kayleigh absorb this in silence, they see a column of smoke billowing in the horizon.
Evan and Kayleigh run toward the smoke.
Lenny nervously follows behind.
They exit the woods to find.
Tommy has stuffed a dog into a gunny sack which he douses with lighter fluid.
Next to a campfire.
Evan and Kayleigh rush toward the trapped, helpless dog.
Tommy is ready for them.
He drops the lighter fluid, picks up a wooden plank and SWINGS! Evan ducks back at the last minute and Tommy accidentally connects with Kayleigh's head.
Knocking her unconscious.
Tommy, enraged, fakes a high swing, then goes for Evan's knee cap.
BASH! Evan doubles over in pain and falls to the ground, clutching his knee.
Tommy moves to the fire, Crockett squirming inside the bag and picks up the lighter fluid.
Evan painfully looks up from the ground and his eyes dart from the sight of Kayleigh, unconscious, to Crockett, trapped in the tied gunny sack.
Tommy squeezes the bottle hard, creating a flaming fuse from the campfire to the fluid soaked dog.
As the flames near Crockett, Evan, seething with rage, stands up with clenched fists and CHARGES Tommy at FULL SPEED.
His body contorts spastically like a fish on land, since he is now lying face down on the ground.
Evan regains himself and sits up painfully.
His face is badly bruised and he clutches his battered ribs.
He gets no answer from Lenny, who stands in the exact same spot.
Evan spins to face her.
Evan grabs his psychology textbook from under his seat, gets up and turns in his exam.
Evan flashes a confident smile.
Evan opens the window and checks out his Psych project: a small maze has several flatworms at one end and a bowl of cornflakes at the other.
Cricket puts on her Doc Martens as Evan watches the worms.
Plenty of underage students carry pitchers of beer to their tables.
Evan and Thumper play pool against two young women.
HEIDI, beautiful, wears ripped jeans, no make up.
Thumper seems oblivious to their taunts as Evan knocks the three-ball in the side.
Another barrage of popcorn hits Thumper's jacket.
Although his hand clenches on the cue.
He meekly shuffles away to the opposite side of the pool table from the cackling Greeks.
Evan and Heidi, making out, burst through the door and fall on the bed.
Evan's shirt is unbuttoned and Heidi strokes his chest.
Suddenly Heidi stops and sniffs the air.
Evan drunkenly crosses the room, grabs two beers from the mini-fridge.
Heidi takes one.
Looks under the bed.
Color drains from Evan's face as he realizes what he's reading.
As Evan reads, the world seems to ALMOST IMPERCEPTIBLY VIBRATE around him LIKE A TUNING FORK.
Evan looks around, utterly confused by his surroundings.
Before an answer comes, Tommy smiles at his good fortune and swings the plank, hitting Evan's head.
Evan is sent sprawling backwards, his forehead bleeding freely.
Tommy knocks Evan hard in the ribs with his boots.
Evan writhes in agony, his face against the ground.
Lenny moves toward the gunny sack, lifts it and tugs desperately on the rope that traps Crockett inside.
Tommy spins around and flashes an evil smile.
Evan, beaten and bloody, reaches out with his last bit of strength, grabs Tommy's foot and holds on.
Lenny remains frozen in place.
Tommy yanks his leg back, breaking Evan's grip.
Tommy smiles viciously at Lenny, traumatized to watch Tommy pick up the lighter fluid and spray a liquid fuse from the campfire to the soaked gunny sack.
Evan comes to with Heidi slapping him awake.
After getting his bearings, he grabs his jacket and exits, leaving her dumbfounded.
Evan drives.
Evan, exhausted, finally pulls into Lenny's driveway.
Now 20, making a model airplane.
The room is filled with model airplanes.
Mrs. Kagan, grayer, fatter, opens the door and escorts Evan inside.
Lenny looks up to see Evan, his jaw drops.
We see he's working on the model again, in his own world.
Evan picks up a model airplane from the desk.
Evan, startled, drops the model on the desk.
Evan is terrified.
Then Lenny suddenly moves back and begins working on the model again, his eyes a million miles away.
Furthermore, the walls behind him vibrate, slightly worse than before.
Evan, Kayleigh, Lenny and Tommy, all thirteen, watch the mailbox across the street with intense anticipation.
When Evan comes to in this memory, the lit cigarette absently drops from his mouth and nestles into the folds of his shirt.
The mailbox.
Suddenly a car appears from down the street and slowly pulls into the driveway.
MRS. HALPERN, 24, an attractive young mother, gets out of the car and walks to the mailbox.
Mrs. Halpern walks back to the car.
Evan looks on in horror and suddenly clenches his teeth in pain and silently swipes the front of his shirt, sending the lit cigarette to the ground.
He pulls up his shirt revealing a fresh BURN MARK on his stomach.
Andrea shakes her head.
Evan nods, but something gnaws beneath the surface.
Evan hastily hunts through his journals, tearing up the room looking for a certain book.
Thumper, lying on his bed, quietly watches Evan with growing concern.
Thumper jumps off the bed and snatches the journal away.
Thumper begins scanning the journal entry.
He hands the journal back to Evan.
Evan opens it and begins reading it silently.
His hands begin to tremble and he slams the book shut in defeat.
Evan pulls into a parking lot of a country diner.
Evan is about to enter when he spots Kayleigh coming out of the kitchen with a tray full of food.
Her BOSS stares back in aggravation.
Kayleigh's face turns beet red as she bends down to clean up the order.
As she brings the mess inside the kitchen, a CUSTOMER pinches her ass.
Evan closely studies her reaction to the offense.
She flinches uncomfortably but then composes a smile for the customer.
Evan backs out uncomfortably.
Kayleigh struggles with the zipper of a shabby coat as she exits.
Evan steps out of the shadows.
She's startled at first, but eventually recognizes him.
A smile flickers across her face and she allows herself to be hugged.
Kayleigh nods and they walk down the street.
She reaches into her pocket, pulls out a pack of smokes.
Evan nods and scrutinizes her face with his next question.
Kayleigh stops walking and crushes her cigarette.
Kayleigh begins to tremble.
Tears flow.
Kayleigh runs, stops and turns back to Evan.
She turns and runs away.
Evan, tired and depressed, sits on the lawn nearby, fingering the new burn scar on his belly.
Evan enters his dorm.
He ignores Thumper, who sits on Evan's bed sucking furiously from a gurgling bong.
Evan puts a towel under the door.
Evan stares dumbstruck at the machine.
Mr. Miller puts the camera on a tripod in the basement.
Kayleigh and Evan sit on folding chairs in front of the camera.
Tommy stands at the top of the basement stairs, looking down.
Mr. Miller lowers his voice and speaks to Evan and Kayleigh.
Mr. Miller gets behind the lens.
Who silently opens the door at the top of the basement stairs and watches with horror.
He walks behind Kayleigh and cups his hands tightly around her ears.
She can't hear anything now.
Evan leans over to whisper in Kayleigh's ear.
Kayleigh stares at the floor, then looks up at her father and shivers.
Evan whips around to see Kayleigh watching him.
Evan lurches back from the shock of seeing Kayleigh and falls to the floor.
She sees Evan's nose bleed and her eyes go wide.
Evan, still stunned, can do little but stare from the floor.
He stands in the middle of her bedroom, surrounded by sorority plaques and pink preppy decor.
Evan, hardly able to take his eyes off her as she hands him a tissue.
He reaches for his clothes at the foot of the bed and comes up with a Greek-lettered fraternity sweatshirt and brown suede jacket.
Evan frowns with distaste, grabs a towel and heads out.
At the sink, Evan washes the blood off his face and looks at his reflection in the mirror.
Evan turns around and sees Gwen, one of the sorority brats from the bar, exit the shower naked.
She pats his ass and exits the bathroom.
Kayleigh, wearing a long skirt and tight red sweater, catches the eye of every guy on campus.
She and Evan stroll arm in arm through the quad.
MANY STUDENTS wave to Evan and call his name.
Kayleigh gives him a big unexpected kiss and walks away.
After a moment of wow, Evan runs off to class himself.
Evan inserts his last quarter into the lobby pay phone and dials a telephone number.
Evan hangs up the phone, then checks his watch.
At that moment, Thumper passes Evan in the lobby.
Thumper walks away, leaving Evan dumbfounded.
Evan runs into the lecture hall and gets in line behind other STUDENTS who are taking No.
2 pencils from a box on Professor Carter's desk.
Evan walks up the aisle and takes a seat.
As he sits down, someone puts his ARM menacingly around Evan's throat.
Evan flinches, turns around and sees Hunter, the frat guy Thumper assaulted the other night at Dirty Hank's bar.
Hunter surreptitiously hands Evan a cheat-sheet to the exam.
Evan nods and smiles as exams are passed down his row.
Evan and Kayleigh have just finished having sex.
She giggles and snuggles into him.
He's grateful for her affection, but still looks uneasy.
The PHONE RINGS and he automatically answers it.
Evan smiles to himself.
And hugs her tighter.
The pledges of Theta Chi busily gather around Evan, their clothes covered in dirt, food and what might be vomit.
Evan, now dressed like his usual self, bangs a wooden spoon on a metal salad bowl that a poor THETA CHI PLEDGE wears as a hat.
As she takes a step toward the table -- FLOWER PETALS shower down on her.
She looks up to see TWO MORE PLEDGES standing on ladders, delicately tossing pedals.
Kayleigh looks overwhelmed as she sits down.
Her hand reaches out to his and grabs it fiercely.
And they lean into each other for a kiss so enchanted it might as well be their first ever -- Hunter bolts up the stairs, two at a time.
Evan and Kayleigh exchange worried looks.
Evan runs down the front lawn to his car, the Honda parked at the bottom of the hill.
Evan's car has been trashed and is surrounded by broken glass.
The seats and tires have been slashed, the hood has been mysteriously yanked off and the steering wheel sits on the roof.
The most unnerving thing, however, is a SPIKED LEATHER DOG COLLAR hangs off the rearview mirror.
By now a crowd has gathered.
She stares at the collar.
Evan leads Kayleigh into his bedroom and shuts the door.
He then locks the door, reaches into his desk and finds a tiny canister of Pepper Spray.
Evan sits in silence for a moment, contemplating this.
Kayleigh and Evan walk through the all-but-deserted campus.
Tommy rushes Evan and bashes him with the tire thumper in the shoulder and ribs.
Evan goes down.
As Tommy prepares to bash his brains in, Evan whips out the Pepper Spray and nails Tommy in the face.
Tommy reels back in pain, covering his eyes with this free hand.
Evan struggles to his feet and circles around Tommy, keeping a distance as he douses Tommy with Pepper Spray.
Tommy blindly stumbles around, madly swinging the tire thumper.
She runs to a blue streetlight on the quad.
Evan kicks Tommy hard in the ribs.
Evan raises the tire thumper for a final attack and swings down OFF CAMERA.
Evan sees what he's done and drops the weapon, horrified.
Kayleigh sees what Evan's done to her brother.
SIRENS come racing to the quad.
Evan looks away from Tommy's limp body.
A SECURITY VEHICLE pulls through the ominous metal gates of the large state prison.
The vehicle stops and Evan, along with nine other convicts, exit in leg and hand restraints.
Evan, now wearing his standard issue inmate uniform, enters the General Population area of the prison.
PRISONERS begin screaming vicious taunts and catcalls at the fresh batch of new inmates.
Evan tries to keep composed and walks toward his cell.
Evan looks up to see one of the men leaning over the second tier, KARL, a huge muscular con with tattoos of swastikas and other Nazi symbols on his arm, blows a kiss at Evan and winks.
Evan enters a dimly lit cell plastered with pictures of Jesus Christ and various Saints.
Sitting on the bottom bunk is CARLOS, 30s, a massive Hispanic convict covered with faded Indian ink jail tats of Christ in agony.
Carlos stares at Evan disinterestedly as Evan makes up his bed on the top bunk.
Carlos leaves the cell without another word.
Evan sets his tray down at a table filled with Carlos and some other INMATES.
Carlos shrugs at Evan and offers him a roll.
Her hair is now bottle-blonde.
Four inches of Plexiglas separate the two and they talk on monitored phones.
Andrea nods, holding up two comp books.
They look at each other and Evan slowly lowers the phone.
He hangs up, Andrea still pressing her phone to her ear.
Evan walks closely behind Carlos through a corridor, clutching his journals.
As he passes Karl, the Neo-Nazi, Karl reaches over and firmly grabs Evan's crotch.
Evan stands there, stunned, unable to react when -- Another Neo-Nazi, RICK, swats Evan's journals out of his hands and onto the floor.
Life springs back into Evan as he rushes for the journals.
He and Rick grab the journals at the same time.
A minor tug of war.
Rick tears them away, Evan coming up with only a few torn pages.
Evan sees the damage and goes mental.
Evan holds a tattered journal entry in his hand and finishes up a conversation.
Evan studies the page.
WE are back in Mrs. Boswell's first grade class.
All of the children draw colorful pictures.
As he heads over to them, Mrs. Boswell firmly grabs his shoulders and steers him back to his own desk.
Evan, defeated, looks over at his blank piece of paper.
He smiles mischievously, and grabs some colored pencils.
Soon enough, an image emerges: Evan holding a knife, stands over a heap of several dead inmates Karl and Rick.
When done, he sneaks over to Mrs. Boswell's desk, where the two paper spindles sit.
The metal needles reach up and skewer a number of paper notes and messages.
She looks over in time to see Evan using all of his seven- year old strength to WHIP his hands down toward the spindles! The moment before his palms reach them there's a brief instant where SOUNDSCAPES COLLIDE and the world behind him VIBRATES.
Evan looks up to see Carlos staring at him with reverence.
Carlos simply stares at him, awestruck, and hands over a box of cigarettes.
Evan nervously approaches.
Karl and Rick wait expectantly as Evan nervously enters.
They continue to stare.
Rick stands.
Evan nods reluctantly and peacefully drops to his knees.
Karl and Rick lower their pants to their ankles.
Evan looks miserable, about to do the deed when -- CARLOS bulldozes past the Aryans into the room, slamming Karl into the wall and jamming a shank into Karl's crotch! Rick instantly charges Carlos, but trips on the pants around his ankles.
Evan, anticipating Rick's fall, stomps Rick's face before snatching his journals from Karl's shelf.
Evan frantically flips through them, hunting for something, as the other WHITE SUPREMACISTS charge the cell.
Carlos drops Karl's writhing body to the floor and presses his girth against the cell door.
Evan locates an entry and concentrates on the words just as the other supremacists force the door open -- Evan focuses on the words.
WORDS from the entry begin to SHIMMER.
REVERBERANT SOUNDS OF BARKING break the sound barrier and the image of Aryans storming the cell behind him become a FRENETIC BLUR.
Evan, thirteen again, comes to in the woods.
Kayleigh and Lenny, walking by his side, do a double take.
Evan roots through the trash until he finds something: a razor sharp piece of metal about two feet long.
Evan offers it to Lenny.
Evan places the metal shard in Lenny's hand.
Lenny slowly follows Evan as he bolts away.
Evan groans on the ground, writhing.
Evan's words hit home and Tommy's anger slowly dissipates.
Tommy looks at the sack and begins to untie it.
Lenny comes screaming from nowhere like a bat out of hell! With all of the force he can muster, he jams the metal shard all the way through Tommy's throat! Tommy clutches his throat, gagging in blood.
Evan surveys the scene in shock.
Lenny drops to the floor, Indian style, wipes the dirt in his hands and freezes up completely.
Kayleigh wakes up and SCREAMS when she sees blood spurt from Tommy's throat.
Lenny, silhouetted by the sky, seems to vibrate violently as if operating a jack-hammer.
His original college dorm -.
Dr. Redfield and Andrea exchange looks.
Dr. Redfield points to the CAT-scan slides, specifically, to the outer lining of Evan's brain.
Dr. Redfield stares ahead.
Andrea stares at him blankly.
Dr. Redfield nods, awed by Evan's effortless interpretation.
Evan looks around to make certain he's not being watched, then uses the security card to open the door.
He looks in every room of the wing until he finds.
Evan unlocks the door and is moved by what he sees.
Lenny is strapped onto a metal bed, his arms and legs in tight leather restraints.
Evan sighs and gives up.
Evan is ignored by several Theta Chi pledges as he plops himself by a tree and hunts through his journal to find the entry from when he was seven and visited Jason at Sunnyvale.
Seven-year old Evan comes to during the time he first met his father, Jason.
Jason launches himself across the table, shackles and all, and grabs hold of Evan's throat.
Evan's hands instinctively reach for his throat, then he realizes his surroundings.
Evan eats in the same diner where Kayleigh used to work.
As he eats, his arm sits in front of his plate, protectively.
Guarding his food.
Evan slowly walks up the driveway, which is now a dilapidated mess.
Garbage litters the front lawn and paint chips rot off the sides of the house.
In a blur, Evan grabs Mr. Miller's shirt and violently shoves him through the house and into a wall.
Mr. Miller goes slack, his eyes wide with horror.
Evan walks past some junkies and enters.
Evan steps over some passed out bodies that litter the hallway of an incredibly seedy motel.
He knocks on a door.
Kayleigh, now haggard, strung-out junkie, opens the door and immediately the contempt for Evan grows in her eyes.
She looks around, waves him in.
The room is dirty and sparse, excepting charred-bottom spoons, yellowed cotton balls and brown-spotted squares of tin foil.
His eyes begin to water.
Kayleigh eyes the wallet.
She opens Evan's wallet and leaves a twenty on the table.
She gets up and puts on her coat.
She tosses his wallet over her shoulder at him and leaves.
Evan enters his familiar looking dorm and hears the familiar sounds of Thumper having sex with another naked GOTHIC CO- ED.
On Evan's bed.
Evan's temper flares and he picks up a chair and SMASHES it against a wall above Thumper's head.
Thumper and the co-ed quickly cover themselves in the blankets and leave.
Mrs. Halpern, startled, stares at the young kid skeptically as she absently continues toward the mailbox.
Lenny comes running across the street to Evan's aid, and Tommy shrugs and follows after him.
Tommy takes a running dive at Mrs. Halpern, perhaps a bit too hard, and sends her and the baby to the pavement, hurt, but no major injuries.
Seeing things are safe, Evan backs away from the mail.
The blast is deafening! Evan's body is hurled backwards dramatically.
Evan comes to back in his dorm, the same posters are on the wall, the sheets are the same.
Evan yawns, bringing his hand to his mouth, but there's no hand.
We see countless and brief image flashes of Evan growing up from the age of thirteen with NO ARMS, and requiring a.
Tommy and Kayleigh load popcorn and drinks onto Evan's lap as Lenny pushes the wheelchair.
Evan celebrates his birthday and blows out the candles.
Evan screams as blood pours from his nose.
Lenny is out of bed at once to help him.
as is KAYLEIGH! (Now beautiful and natural looking).
Evan sips from a BEER CAP as Lenny and Kayleigh make out in plain sight with Tommy's bashful approval.
Evan's in agony as Kayleigh opens a series of dorm doors and Lenny rushes Evan's wheelchair through.
Kayleigh carries a pair of prosthetic arms in her hands.
Evan launches his body forward and spills clumsily out of the wheelchair.
Evan focuses on Lenny, but it's hard to ignore the crowd that titters and snickers in the background.
Kayleigh turns to face the jeering crowd.
The crowd breaks up and leaves.
Lenny and Kayleigh push Evan's wheelchair around the quad.
Evan now wears prosthetic arms.
He looks up as Evan rolls along and his eyes brighten to see Evan.
Kayleigh looks at Evan.
Evan allows Kayleigh to roll him away from the others.
Kayleigh, now by a bench.
Stops and sits.
As she casually uses her foot to turn his chair to face her, she pulls out a granola bar and hands it to him.
His prosthetic hand crushes it.
It crumbles to dust.
Kayleigh shakes her head sadly, then suddenly looks up.
Evan turns to see Lenny waving her over.
She puts her hand on Evan's shoulder, stands and goes to Lenny.
Evan can't take his eyes off her.
Lenny kissing Kayleigh.
Evan turns away, utterly heartbroken.
Evan's stump turns on a BATHTUB FAUCET.
Evan, fully clothed, lies in a bathtub that's filling with water.
Beside the tub, the wheelchair has been tipped over.
The water rises past his mouth, to his nostrils -- Evan makes his peace and takes a final breath.
And the water spills over the side of the tub.
All Evan can do is watch it, still breathing easily through his nose.
TOMMY ENTERS.
He pushes a lever and the mechanical wheelchair rolls itself out of the room.
Evan watches Lenny eagerly as he dumps tons of Evan's junk on the floor.
Old report cards, books, toys and photo albums fall on the floor.
Evan beams when he sees Lenny holding his old journal.
Lenny, utterly baffled, sits back in silence and watches Evan begin reading his journal to himself for a beat.
Evan comes to in his childhood kitchen.
Evan springs to his feet and flexes his real hands triumphantly.
He rummages through the utensil drawer and pulls out a large butcher knife and grabs it.
He tucks it into his sock but it won't fit.
He's still debating what to do when: ANDREA WALKS IN and is startled by the unexpected sight of Evan holding a huge knife.
Evan sees her but remains expressionless.
Evan comes to to find Lenny still staring at him.
Evan flips a single page of his journal and tries again.
He reads to himself, then relaxes his head.
Evan, seven again, stands in the basement dressed in his Robin Hood costume as Mr. Miller prepares for the sex scene.
Mr. Miller is puzzled, but watches Evan SKIP to the fireplace.
Mr. Miller finally turns around and sees Evan banging the blockbuster on the table.
Tommy, hiding at the top of the stairs, slowly creeps down to get a better view.
Evan, standing near the fireplace, defiantly strikes the match with this thumb and lowers the flame to the short fuse.
Mr. Miller charges Evan just as the fuse is lit!
Mr. Miller knocks the blockbuster from Evan's hand and it rolls towards the other side of the room, resting peacefully against the video camera.
Kayleigh's eyes are dazzled by the sparkling fuse and she bends down to pick it up.
BOOM! The blast is deafening.
Evan, twenty, wakes up with a bloody nose.
His journals are missing! He runs from the room.
Evan runs into Dr. Redfield's office just as another patient is leaving.
Evan looks stunned.
Andrea begins to break down in tears.
Evan secretly listens in from the hallway.
Evan sees no one is watching him in the institution corridor as he throws his weight into the door of the doctor's office, breaking it open.
Evan enters the office and tears the file cabinets apart, looking for something.
Grabs it and hides under the doctor's desk.
FLASHLIGHT BEAMS stab through the darkened corridor hunting for him.
Evan, under the doctor's desk, grabs some paper and begins writing in shorthand.
Fatigue overwhelms him, but he continues writing.
Dr. Redfield catches up with the rest of the guards.
FLICKERING FIRELIGHT.
The NOLDORIN FORGE in EREGION.
MOLTEN GOLD POURS from the lip of an IRON LADLE.
THREE RINGS, each set with a single GEM, are received by the HIGH ELVES-GALADRIEL, GIL-GALAD and CIRDAN.
SEVEN RINGS held aloft in triumph by the DWARF LORDS.
NINE RINGS clutched tightly by the KINGS OF MEN.as if holding-close a precious secret.
An ancient PARCHMENT MAP of MIDDLE EARTH.moving slowly across the MAP as if drawn by an unseen force the CAMERA closes in on a PLACE NAME.MORDOR.
TEASING SHOTS: SAURON forging the ONE RING in the CHAMBERS of.
The ONE RING reflecting FIERY LAVA! FIRE WRITING emerges on the plain BAND OF GOLD.
THE ONE RING falls through SPACE and into flames.
A GREAT SHADOW falls across the MAP.closing in around the realm of GONDOR from their homes, pursued by ARMIES OF HIDEOUS ORCS.
ISILDUR, son of the KING OF GONDOR, leads an ARMY ACROSS the PLAINS OF DAGORLAD.
commands rank after rank of ELVEN ARCHERS.ORCS RETREATING before the ARMY of the LAST ALLIANCE.ELENDIL holds aloft the great sword.NARSIL.
THE HUGE, DARK FIGURE OF SARURON, bearing the ONE RING on his finger, looms over the field of battle.
SAURON lays waste to the armies of the LAST ALLIANCE.
With desperate courage, ELENDIL leads a charge.THE BLACK MACE OFSAURON LASHES OUT!!
MAGE: ELENDIL'S body falls like a crumpled rag doll.
ISILDUR cradles the body of his father in his arms.
The SHADOW OF SAURON falls over him.
ISILDUR snatches up the BROKEN BLADE OF NARSIL.The BLADE severs SAURON'S FINGERS.
AND THE ONE RING FLIES from his body.
GONE.VAPORIZED! CLOSE ON: ISILDUR picks up the SEVERED FINGER and removes the ONE RING.transfixed.
GLADDEN FIELD.ISILDUR leads a small column of men through DARKENING WOODS.the ONE RING glinting on a CHAIN around his neck.
SUDDENLY! ARROWS FLY! They are ambushed by ORCS.ISILDUR.
ISILDUR MATERIALIZES UNDER WATER.as THE RING slips slowly from his finger.
Ripples of LIGHT play across ISILDUR'S PALE FACE.he is DEAD.
THE RING falls through the MURKY WATERS of the RIVER.
The waters of the ANDUIN RIVER lie dark and undisturbed.
SILT SWIRLS.A THIN WHITE HAND reaches down.grasping the RING.
THE THIN WHITE HAND opens to reveal one ring.
Bathed in COLD MOONLIGHT, the WORLD lies DARK and STILL.the unsettled quiet before the storm.
THE GLOOM of a MOUNTAIN CAVERN.a MURKY POOL of WATER.in the DARKNESS the SHADOWY OUTLINE of an EMACIATED.
unseen by its KEEPER.THE RING falls to the MUDDY FLOOR of a MOUNTAIN TUNNEL
FUMBLING in the dark, a SMALL HAND closes over the.
A YOUNGISH LOOKING BILBO BAGGINS peers down at what lies in his hand, PERPLEXED by what he has found.
Frightened Bilbo quickly POCKETS the ONE RING and hurries on.
Resting on a small rock.rising out of the LONG, OVERGROWN.
Rising out of the LONG, OVERGROWN white flowers are scattered among the Well seeded grasses.
An idyllic setting at the end of a long hot summer.
the figure is reading a book.
The figure in the grass sits up.looking straight at camera is a handsome young HOBBIT, with dark curly hair and deep blue eyes.
This is FRODO BAGGINS.his EYES alight with EXCITEMENT! Tossing away the long stem of grass in his mouth, Frodo runs off.
The cart rattles along a leafy lane, driven by a stooped figure in Grey.
The shambling OLD PONY snorts and rears as.
SHIRE.YEARS LATER CAMERA TRACKS TO: a Figure lies beneath the dappled sunlight of an old tree.
SUDDENLY FRODO appears on a bank above the cart.
They look at each other a moment.then both start laughing as FRODO'S face breaks into a smile and he leaps on to the front seat of the cart.
The cart rattles past a FIELD LUPIN being tended by.
Gandalf looks down at Frodo, a twinkle in his eye.
The cart rattles over a Stone bridge towards a Busy Hobbit Marketplace.
Gandalf as he surveys the peaceful scene before him.
Hobbits look up exclaiming in wonder and excitement as the cart bearing Gandalf and Frodo rolls past the Green Dragon Inn.towards.
The party field.
Where scOrcs of Hobbits are busy preparing for the big night.
ODO PROUDFOOT looks up as the Cart passes by, deeply suspicious.
As the cart rattles into the small village of Hobbiton.a quaint rustic settlement, nestled amongst rolling green hills and large trees.
Excited children, chasing after the cart.
Gandalf ignOrcs the children's cries.
The children stand deflated, watching Gandalf disappear up the lane.
At that moment: spinning balls of bright color suddenly leap out of the cart, fizzing over the heads of the delighted children.
Gandalf smiling to himself, well pleased with his joke.
ODO PROUDFOOT is unable to suppress a chuckle.
Frodo stands up in the cart as Gandalf reigns in the horse.
The Hobbits live in Hobbit Holes: neat burrows dug into the grassy hillside, with round doors and cute front gardens.
GANDALF'S CART pulls up outside the gate to BAG END.a particularly fine example of a Hobbit hole, with a large round front door set into a grassy hillside.
He raises his staff and raps on the front door.a voice calls out.
Suddenly the door opens and BILBO BAGGINS stands before him.
He is a HOBBIT OF INDERTIMINATE AGE, with a mischievous Twinkle in his eye.
Wearing a dashing brocade waist coat, he looks every inch the eccentric gentleman.
Gandalf drops to his knee to embrace his old friend.
Gandalf looks at him more keenly.
Bilbo leads Gandalf into Bag End.cozy and cluttered with souvenirs of Bilbo's travels.
Gandalf has to stoop to avoid hitting his head on the low ceiling.
Bilbo hangs up Gandalf's hat on a peg and trots off down the hall.
Bilbo disappears into the kitchen as Gandalf looks around.enjoying the familiarity of Bag End.he turns, knocking his head on the light and then walking into the wooden beam.
He groans.
Gandalf stops in front of a framed map, charred in one corner.it is Thorin's map of the Lonely Mountain, Gandalf smiles to himself.
Gandalf watches, amused as Bilbo tries to hide.
Bilbo's fingers close around his waistcoat pocket.gripping a small, unseen object.
Gandalf and Bilbo are sitting on the Bag End porch.
Below them, final preparations are being made on the Party field.
Bilbo blows a perfect smoke ring and watches it rise into the air.
A tiny sailing ship with masts and sails glides through the Center of Bilbo's smoke ring.
with glowing flowers as they rain down from the branches.evaporating just above the up turned faces of the delighted party-goers Hobbits, feasting and drinking Carts of beer and wine are scattered about, and the tables are piled high with steaming scones and savories.
Bilbo is greeting visitors.
Frodo and SAM sit at a table drinking ale.Frodo notices Sam's eyes keep flicking to another pretty Hobbit, Rosie Cotton, sitting some distance away.
Sam goes to drain his glass.
suddenly it is snatched out of his hands as Frodo thrusts him into the middle of a passing throng of dancers as he is Swept away.
Frodo laughs and finishes Sam's beer.
Gandalf as he sets alight a particularly spectacular firework that draws gasps of admiration from the party guests.
Bilbo is relating stories of his adventure to a group of young hobbit children.
Upturned face, her eyes growing larger and larger.
STUNNED GASPS from his young Audience greet his astonishing feat!
MERRY AND PIPPIN, two mischievous Young Hobbits in their late teens.
Pippin scrambles on to the back of Gandalf's wagon, snatching up a small firework.
Gandalf hurries about, lighting fireworks with a blue spark that dances magically from his staff.
LARGE HANDS suddenly clamp down on Merry and Pippin's ears.
Gandalf looking DOWN STERNLY.
Are leaning over a barrel, washing dishes in soapy water.with Gandalf sitting nearby, smoking his pipe and sipping an ale.
Bilbo stepping on a stool.he bows in gratitude at the applause.
FRODO AND GANDALF smiling to themselves.
Bilbo's hand pulls something out of his waistcoat pocket and holds it behind his back.
Bilbo.a strange hum seems to fill his head.
Bilbo.he gives Gandalf a look and nods toward the mantelpiece.
Gandalf rises to his full height, his eyes flash, his shadow suddenly seems to fill the room.
Bilbo lifts his knapsack and heads for the front door.
Bilbo pulls out the ring.he stares at it in his palm.
With all his will power, Bilbo allows the ring to slowly slide off his palm and drop to the floor.
The tiny ring lands with a heavy thud on the wooden floor.
Bilbo staggering out of Bag end.he braces himself in the night air, Pale and Trembling, as if his loss of the ring has weakened him.
Gandalf steps up behind.
THE RING.Glinting on the floor.Gandalf circles around it, a Puzzled look on his face.
Gandalf slowly reaches for the ring.
Gandalf is sitting in front of the fire, with his pipe.staring into the flickering flames.
Frodo rushes into Bag End.he stops and picks up the ring at his feet.
Gandalf continues staring into the fire, as if locked in thought.
Gandalf turns.his eyes locking onto the ring in Frodo's fingers.
Gandalf holds out the envelope.Frodo drops the ring into it.
Gandolf seals the envelope with wax.
He hands it to Frodo.
Gandalf is already at the door, he turns to Frodo.
Gandalf hurries out the door.leaving FRODO standing alone in the Bag End.
The camera pushes in.the hum of the ring comes up on the soundtrack.
The camera pushes through the white paper to the ring.beneath the hum the whispered murmur of BLACK SPEECH can be heard.
THE HUGE DARK TOWER OF BARAD-DUR is being rebuilt!
Thousands of ORCS crawl over the surface, hauling stone and iron up the towering heights, grows and spreads across the red streaked sky.casting a shadowy pall over the nightmarish landscape.
NINE BLACK RIDERS burst out of Minas Morgul and charge toward Camera.
A LONE HORSEMAN gallops to the crest of a hill on the west road.
The main highway south to Minas Tirith.he looks toward the saw toothed mountains of Mordor.
He is seeping out across the blood red sky, his face grave.
He spurs his horse on.
Making is way down into the lower depths of the Citidel.
Pages flipping as Gandalf searches ancient scrolls and books placed high on a wooden table.
His eyes settle on one old parchment.
He murmurs hurriedly to himself, reading.
FARMER MAGGOT is chopping wood in his garden
SNORTING HORSE NOSTRILS.as the shadow of a black rider looms over a Hobbit House.
Terrified, FARMER MAGGOT cowers in his doorway.FANG, his dog, Whimpers and backs away.
The BLACK RIDER GALLOPS AWAY AT SPEED.
FRODO FAREWELLS SAM outside Bag End, and heads towards the front door.
Creepy POV from inside Bag end: Frodo coming up the path.
FRODO enters Bag End.he immediately Pauses, sensing that something is amiss.
All is quiet.Frodo peers uneasily into the darkened living room.
SUDDENLY! A large figure looms out of the shadows, reaching for Frodo.
Frodo lets out a startled cry, pulls himself free and spins around to face his Assailant.
Gandalf steps into a shaft of moonlight.
Paranoia blazes in his eyes.
His clothes are dirty and ragged from much traveling.
Hair and beard much longer an unkempt.
Gandalf, suspicious, Alert.
Frodo pulls the envelope out of an old chest.
Without a word, Gandalf takes the envelope and tosses it into the fireplace.
Flames instantly consume the envelope.revealing the ring, as it sinks into the red hot embers.
Gandalf reaches into the fire with a pair of tongs.he lifts the ring out.
Gandalf drops the ring into Frodo's hand.he reacts to its weight.
The Gold Band of the ring as fiery letters begin to appear.
a tiny inscription glows red.as if burning from within.emanates from the Ring.
Frodo looks at Gandalf, each knowing the other has heard it.
Mordor.
The ring lies between them on the table.
Gandalf looks at Frodo, sadly.
A teasing Glimpse of Gollum being tortured by the Orcs.
On a dark country lane, a Hobbit bounder lifts his watch lantern in alarm.
Out of the darkness thunder two BLACK RIDERS.A LETHAL SWORD swings down at the small Hobbit bounder.
FRODO thrusts the ring at Gandalf.
throwing clothes into a knapsack.Gandalf watches him, making plans.
Frodo is preparing to leave.
Gandalf looks at the young Hobbit, moved by his courage.
GANDALF FREEZES.
he moves quietly towards the window, eyes wide with tension.
He raises his staff above the window, and slams it down on the intruder.
THERE IS A YELP OF PAIN.
Gandalf hauls a small figure into the room.SAM GAMGEE sprawls across the floor! He looks up in terror as Gandalf looms over him.
HOBBITON.shrouded in a white veil of MIST.
To reveal Gandalf, Frodo and Sam hurrying across a ploughed field,away from Hobbiton!
Gandalf leads his Horse.Frodo and Sam are carrying knapsacks.
Gandalf leads Frodo and Sam under the cover of Woods.
Gandalf takes Frodo to one side.
FRODO NODS.he pats his pocket.
FRODO AND SAM hiking over the gentle Shire Countryside.wading through a shallow stream
Sam stops short.taking stock of his surroundings.
Sam takes a deep breath and steps forward.
SAM'S brown, furry foot hits the ground.
Frodo and Sam continue their journey.
Gandalf is galloping along the outskirts of the ancient forest of Fangorn.
Nestled in a basin at the foot of the distant Misty Mountains, the tall black tower of Orthanc is clearly visible.
Gandalf gallops through the gate, into the fortress of ISENGARD.a great ring-wall of stone, a mile from rim to rim, encloses beautiful trees and gardens, watered by streams that flow down from the mountains.
The strange tower of Orthanc.hewn from a solid pillar of black obsidian.rises up in the center of the Isengard Circle.
Gandalf arrives at the foot of the Orthanc Stairs.
he sweeps down the Orthanc stairs.
Gandalf moves quickly towards him, grimy and weary from his long ride.
Gandalf and Saruman walk slowly between the beautiful trees of Isengard, Saruman's clean, white robe contrasts with Gandalf's dusty grey robes.
Saruman and Gandalf are seated in a small, cluttered room to the side of the cavernous central chamber.
Gandalf and Saruman stride through Orthanc toward a stone plinth on which a sphere like shape is draped with a cloth.
Saruman lifts the cloth to reveal the Palantir.
Saruman sits upon his throne.
Gandalf backs away and turns to run to the door.horrified as the doors suddenly slam shut.
Gandalf slowly turns to Saruman.a look of dawning horror.
At that moment: Gandalf is suddenly blasted across the room! He slams against the wall.pinned there by some unseen force.
With sudden effort, Gandalf wrenches himself off the wall and swings his staff on Saruman.blasting him off his feet! Gandalf and Saruman battle, powerful blasts throwing them across the room.
SARUMAN SCREAMS, EYES BLAZING! Gandalf's staff is suddenly wrenched from his grasp.it flies across the chamber into Saruman's hand! Gandalf is flung to the floor.
Gandalf is breathing hard on the floor, his eyes look into the madness of Saruman.
Commanding two staffs, Saruman sends Gandalf into a sickening spin.
Gandalf tumbles towards the top of the chamber.as if falling in reverse.
the roof of Orthanc rockets toward camera.
Frodo and Sam walking along a country lane which borders Farmer Maggot's Fields.
Sam is looking up.Frodo has disappeared around a corner in the lane.
SUDDENLY! A figure comes crashing out of a hedgerow sending Frodo flying.
Merry, Pippin, and Frodo picking themselves up.
a variety of vegetables have scattered everywhere.
A large pitchfork can be seen racing towards them along the Hedgerow.angry shouts from Farmer Maggot.
Merry and Pippin hurriedly gather their booty and race away.with Frodo and Sam on their heels.
Frodo, Sam, and Merry and Pippin tumble head over heels down a bank, onto a dark, wooded road.
A winded Pippin, his face inches away from a large pile of Horse droppings.
Pulls a LARGE CARROT, almost broken through in the middle, out from his back pocket.
Pippin has spied something under the trees on the far side of the road.
SMALL, brown mushrooms growing amongst the Loamy undergrowth.
Sam, Merry, and Pippin race toward the mushrooms! Frodo is tense and watchful.
Frodo picks himself up and looks around quickly.
He realizes they are on a wooded road.
Scattered leaves rise into the air Whirling down the road as if blown by an invisible wind.
A long drawn WAIL comes down the wind, like the cry of some evil and lonely creature.
Sam grabs Merry and Pippin as the Hobbits quickly scramble down the bank, hiding under a mossy log.
THE SOUND OF HOOVES is close.
A sinister MOUNTED RINGWRATH steps into view.hooded and faceless, mounted on a huge snarling black horse with insane eyes ! Frodo freezes in terror.
The RINGWRAITH pauses right beside their hiding place.he sits very still with his head bowed, listening.
Beads of sweat gather on his brow.
The ringwraith suddenly slides off his horse, leaning over the mossy log, peering suspiciously into the woods.
From inside the hood comes a sniffing noise as if he is trying to catch an elusive scent; his head turning from side to side.
He is drawing the ring out of his pocket, with trembling hands.his face fevered and sweating as if in the grip of some terrible INTERNAL STRUGGLE.
Merry desperately hurls the mushrooms across the road.
the ringwraith spins around at the sound, and darts to the far side of the road with frightening speed.
Frodo instantly slumps.as if a PSYCHIC LINK had been broken.
Frodo is staring, a look of shock on his face at the ring lying in the palm of his hand.
The BLACK RIDER turns and departs.
Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin hurry through the trees.slipping and sliding on the muddy ground.
Merry moves past pippin, toward Frodo, watching intently.Sam keeps looking around nervously.
The Four Hobbits sprawled on the ground, holding their breath.
The SILHOUETTE OF A BLACK RIDER looms against the skyline.
Merry looks at his friend.realizing Frodo is in deep trouble.
The Hobbits break cover.
SUDDENLY, A RINGWRAITH bursts out of the forest TOWARD THEM.
FRODO, SAM, MERRY AND PIPPIN, are running towards the wide, placid Brandywine river.and the FERRY.
The HOBBITS stampede across the Wharf and Tumble onto the Ferry.
Frodo races across the Wooden Wharf, followed by the ringwraiths.
He leaps into the Ferry.
shrieking with rage! The Hobbits cover their ears.
Sam and Merry shove off with the poles.
 The ferry slides out into the river, just as the ringwraiths arrive.
The Ringwraiths wheel their horses towards the north and Gallop away along the river bank, quickly disappearing into the fog.
Lights of Bree.a small village of stone and half timbered houses nestled against a low wooded hill.
FRODO, SAM, MERRY AND PIPPIN approaching the gatehouse.wild eyes, ragged, and out of breath.
A thick hedge surrounds the village.a great gate bars the western entrance.
A SURLY GATEKEEPER glances down at them.
The gatekeeper swings his lantern onto the hobbits, bathing them in an uncomfortable yellow spotlight.
The Hobbits gratefully enter Bree.the gatekeeper eyeing them curiously in the lantern light.
The tall BREE FOLK loom over the nervous little hobbits as Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin make their way through the Narrow Streets.
Tall buildings tower above them.lights glow dimly from behind thick curtains.
Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin come rushing in.
Frodo attracts the INN KEEPERS'S attention.
Sam watches Pippin rise unsteadily to his feet and head to the bar.
Sam indicates a BROODING STRANGER who sits alone at a table in the far corner, smoking a curiously carved long stemmed pipe, peering from beneath a travel stained cowl with gleaming eyes.
Frodo gestures to Butterbur.
Sitting at the bar, chatting with Locals.
Frodo leaps to his feet and pushes his way towards the bar.
Frodo grabs Pippin's sleeve, spilling his beer.
Frodo is pushed into the Hobbit's room by Strider.
STRIDER SHEATHS his sword, a slight smile playing on his lips.
The gate keeper comes out of his Lodgings with a lantern.a look of fear on his face.
He approaches the closed gate with great apprehension.
The Gatekeeper peers out of his Peephole.
The gate crashed down on the gatekeeper.as four RINGWRAITHS ride into Bree.
The four RINGWRAITHS fly done the empty streets, like horsemen of the apocalypse.
the front door FLIES OPEN.
The FOUR RINGWRAITHS rush into the PRANCING PONY with WICKED SWORDS DRAWN.
BUTTERBUR hiding behind his bar trembling and sweating in TERROR.
PIPPIN stirs slightly, then settles back to sleep.
the door creaks open.THE FOUR RINGWRAITHS silently slide into the Hobbit's room.
The LOOM above each bed, raising their SHINING SWORDS ABOVE THE SLEEPING HOBBITS.
Sam's eyes open wide.
In unison, the RINGWRAITS STAB THE HOBBITS, in a Slashing, hacking frenzy.
the RINGWRAITHS step back from the slashed beds in triumph.
a hacked blanket is pulled back to reveal nothing but a shredded pillow.
The RINGWRAITHS SHRIEK WITH RAGE!! INSERTS: Sam sits up with a start!.
Another shredded pillowis revealed! More Shrieks of rage.
PIPPIN AND MERRY wake with a start.
Sam, Merry, and Pippin have been sleeping on Strider's bed.
Frodo stands next to Strider by the window, peering out nervously as furious Ringwraith screeches echo across the courtyard from the Hobbits room.
STRIDER, MERRY, PIPPIN, AND FRODO march through a gloomy, overgrown forest.
Frodo watches uneasily as Strider moves off into the cover of the trees.
SAM looks excited.
Strider leads the Hobbits through the gloom of the forest.
Aerial on: Strider leading Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin across the windswept moors.
The hobbits suddenly stop and unstrap their knapsacks.
Strider stops, casts a glance back at Sam.
Strider stares at Pippin blankly, then turns away, shaking his head.
An apple is thrown to Merry, who deftly catches it.
Another, aimed at Pippin, catches him on the forehead.
Saruman stands over the Palantir, his hands cupping the massive eye.
Saruman is seated as his ORC OVERSEER approaches.
GANDALF.lying unconscious on a cold obsidian floor.
Gandalf stands as the camera pulls back to reveal him stranded on the summit of Orthanc.
Another whispering wail rends the air.
He is marooned on the tiny, flat peak, surrounded on all sides by a sheer FOOT DROP.
Gandalf crosses quickly to the edge and peers down: POV: One of the beautiful Isengard trees is being ripped from the ground by the ORCS.
Gandalf looks on in Horror as ORCS hack into the trunk with axes.
SARUMAN stands in Rain looking out into the dark night.the ORC overseer sidles up to him, axe in hand, sweating with exertion.
MORE AND MORE TREES are hauled down and killed.as Gandalf looks on in helpless despair.
The rugged countryside as the hobbits journey on, lead by Strider.
Strider stops before a distant hill, topped by an Ancient Ruin.
FRODO, MERRY, AND PIPPIN collapse into a small hollow, halfway up Weathertop.they are muddy and exhausted.
Stider drops 4 small swords at the Hobbits feet.
Frodo.eyes flickering open.
He suddenly sits up, sniffing the air.
Sam, Merry, and Pippin huddled over a small fire.
Sausages and bacon sizzle in a hot frying pan.
FIVE RINGWRAITHS ON FOOT, running up the steep slope unnaturally fast.
Frodo, Sam, Merry and Pippin clamber desperately towards the summit, clutching their swords.
Frodo, Sam, Merry, and Pippin race into a RING OF BROKEN STONES on the summit or Weathertop, the ruined base of an ancient tower.
The hobbits stand back-to-back in the centre of the Ring, waiting for the first assault.
One by one, the 5 Ringwraiths appear.brandishing Gleaming swords, they move slowly towards the hobbits.
In the center is their leader.the WITCH KING.
Sam rushes forward with a cry.
He swings his sword at the Witch King, who blocks the blow with his own sword.
Sam's blade shatters.the WITCH KING lashes out with his fist, sending Sam flying.
Merry and Pippin, overcome with terror, throw themselves flat on the ground.
In slow motion as his hand goes into his pocket and pulls out the ring.
THE RINGWRAITHS close in on Frodo.a Venomous whisper dances in his head.
The 5 Ringwraiths utter a chilling SCREECH OF EXCITEMENT.
Frodo is unable to resist any longer, falls to his knees and slips on the ring.
He disappears.
Frodo finds himself in the weird twilight world.he looks upon the Ringwraiths, now visible in their TRUE APPEARANCE: Five Ghouls dressed in long Grey robes, with white hair, and Pallid, ruthless faces.
THE WITCH KING extends a haggard hand towards Frodo, reaching for the ring on his finger.
Frodo's trembling hand extends forward as if by the pull of the ring.he slides to the ground, unable to pull his hand away.
The witch king snarls and springs forward.
He stabs at Frodo with a wicked dagger! Frodo winces as the tip of the dagger sinks into his shoulder.
Suddenly, Strider charges at the RINGWRAITHS, wielding his sword in one hand, a flaming torch in the other.
He moves in slow motion, visible through a sea of mist.
Frodo sinks to the ground.
With draining strength, Frodo manages to pull the ring off his finger.
Appearing back in the real world, Sam rushes over to him.
A DISTANT CRY of a RINGWRAITH carries through the air.
Frodo gasps in sudden pain.
Sam and Strider desperately search the dark forest floor for the Athelas plant.
A small, white flowered plant! Strider drops to one knee, carefully pulling it from the ground.
Strider slowly looks up.
Frodo is breathing hard, desperately ill.
Frodo's half- conscious POV: Surreal impression.a SHIMMERING FIGURE IN WHITE leaps off a horse.
An ethereal vision of ARWEN, as she appears on the other side.
Who now appears in her earth bound form, a young Elven woman with tousled hair, dressed in mud-splattered riding clothes.
Strider.we see that it is hard for him to let her go.
Arwen mounts her horse, ALSFORTH.
Arwen looks down at Strider as she supports Frodo with one hand.
Asfaloth springs away, bearing Arwen and Frodo into the night.
through the forest from the back of the White Horse.
AERIAL: of Arwen's white horse emerging from the trees.and galloping across the open land as the sun rises.
he lifts his head weakly.
The white horse charges through a Pine Forest.
THE HORSES HEAD BOBBING.trees sliding by.moonlight flickers through the trees.
Suddenly 2 Galloping Ringwraiths emerge from the trees behind! 2 more Ringwraiths slide in from different directions to join the chase.
The white horse speeds out of the pine trees.the 4 ringwraiths close behind PAN ONTO: 2 more ringwraiths galloping down the hillside! AERIAL SHOT: 3 MORE RINGWRAITHS enter frame from different directions.a total of 9 RINGWRAITHS now pursuing Frodo and Arwen! CLOSE ON: Panting head of the WHITE ELVEN HORSE.
Arwen grits her teeth.urges the white horse to greater speed.
THE WITCH KING SCREECHES ANGRILY, draws his sword, and leads the Ringwraiths across the Ford.
Arwen gathers the small Hobbit in her arms, feeling his life slip away.
A BRIGHT LIGHT suddenly flares.Frodo squeezes his eyes shut, gasping.
Frodo's eyes flicker Open He is lying in bed next to an Open Window.Dappled sunlight plays on richly carved timbers.
The sound of a nearby waterfall drifts through the Vista of Fir Trees.
Gandalf softly puffing on his pipe.
He smiles at Frodo.
Frodo sits up, looking at Gandalf questioningly.
troubled.
His eyes drift away.
SARUMAN stands over Gandalf, gloating.
With the power of his staff, Saruman raises Gandalf from the ground, then sends him crashing to the floor.
SUDDENLY! GANDALF lurches to his feet and Throws himself off the Tower! Saruman watches Gandalf fly away from Isengard.on the Back of a GIANT EAGLE.
Gwaihir the Eagle soars majestically over the mountains, carrying Gandalf towards the dawn.
Frodo raises himself up and looks at Gandalf.
Sam runs to Frodo's bedside.
He is overjoyed to find Frodo awake bedside.
His face is neither old nor young, though in it is written the memory of many things both glad and sorrowful.
Sam looks past Frodo smiling.
a bent figure sits alone on a bench, in the Sun.
Frodo turning, following Sam's gaze.
BILBO BAGGINS! He breaks in to a broad grin as Frodo rushes forward to embrace him.
Bilbo has aged significantly since we last saw him.
Frodo is turning the neatly inscribed title page of a red leather bound journal.
Frodo looks at Page after page of beautiful Handwriting, with intricate Maps and Drawings.
He is sitting with Frodo on a terrace overlooking a Waterfall.
Frodo turns a page.there before him, is a map of the Shire.
Bilbo smiles Proudly.
Sam busily tries to stuff more and more things into his already full pack.pots and pans, blankets, cooking utensils, provisions, clothes.
Sam looks up, startled.
Gandalf and Elrond watch Frodo and Sam from Elrond's balcony.
Elrond turns and walks away.
Gandalf turns and looks out the window.
With the broken sword, Isildur slices off Sauron's finger.
Elrond reacts.
Isildur turns and walks away.
Strider watches from the shadows.as Boromir strolls through the darkened gallery.
Boromir's eyes are drawn to an old Fresco on the wall.depicting Isildur defeating Sauron.
Boromir looks with Wonderment at Narsil, the Broken Blade of Elendil, which lies on a cloth-covered plinth.
Boromir senses Strider's presence.he looks from the blade to Strider, as if sensing a connection.
Night falls upon the beautiful valley of Rivendell, Still and quiet.
Strider and Arwen stand upon a stone bridge.the Evenstar at Arwen's breast shines in the moonlight.
Arwen looks into Strider's eyes.
Arwen closes Strider's fingers around the jewel.
Arwen leans towards Strider, gently kissing him.
Elrond addresses the council.
Frodo sits amongst a council of free-peoples of Middle earth, Elrond stands before them, addressing Gandalf, Strider, Legolas, and other elves, Dwarves, and men.
Frodo steps forward and moves towards a stone Plinth.
He places the ring on the plinth and returns to his seat.
Strider says nothing and Boromir turns away dismissively.
 Boromir turns sharply.
LEGOLAS stands.
Frodo looks at Strider questioningly.
The HUM OF THE RING seems to grow louder in Frodo's ears.
Gimli suddenly stands, excited.
Gimli suddenly rushes forward! He swings his axe down on the ring.
The axe shatters with a deafening crack! Gimli falls backwards, staring in disbelief at the ring.unharmed!
Frodo winces as an angry image of the fiery eye hits him! He slumps in this chair, clutching his forehead.
Gandalf looks at him with concern.
Stunned silence.
 The council sits with downcast eyes, as if a great dread has descended on them.
Boromir addresses the council in a quiet voice.
Gimli leaps to his feet.
motion.the angry faces, the shaking fists, the accusatory fingers, his eyes move across to the ring.the hum grows louder in his head.
THE RING fills the screen.streams of blood flow across the surface.
flames flicker within the Gold Band.
FRODO.breathing rapidly, Caught in the grip of his hideous vision.
With a huge effort or will, Frodo tears his gaze upon the ring.
Frodo suddenly stands.he speaks in a strong, clear voice.
Sudden silence.Frodo looks around the room at the astounded faces.
Boromir looks at them all then walks towards Frodo.
Boromir looks towards Elrond and Gandalf.
Frodo stares in wonder as the Greatest Fighters in all Middle earth stand at his side.
Merry and Pippin jump up from behind another bush.
An old sword sliding out of a shabby leather Scabbard.its polished, well tendered Blade glitters cold and bright.
Bilbo offers Sting to Frodo.
Bilbo unwraps a small shirt of close woven Mail.
Frodo peels off his shirt revealing The Ring on the Chain around his neck.
Suddenly! A shadow passes across Bilbo.for a split second he becomes a wrinkled creature with a hungry face and Bony, groping hands.
Frodo pulls away, shocked.the shadow passes.
Bilbo slumps into a chair, his head in his hands.
Bilbo falters.his eyes filling with tears.
Bilbo sobs and Frodo moves to comfort him.
The Fellowship climb the long steep path out of the cloven vale of Rivendell.
The fellowship trekking through a land of Deep Valleys and turbulent waters.the misty mountains rise sharply to their left.
Sam at the campfire.
GIMLI has managed to corner Gandalf.
Boromir thrusts, catching Pippin on the hand.
Pippin throws down his sword, kicks and lunges at Boromir, tackling him to the ground.
Much laughter.
Legolas' eyes are fixed on a distant Dark Patch which darts about the sky, like flying smoke in the wind.
Gandalf looks at Aragorn, turns to the others gesturing towards a high mountain pass.
The Fellowship clamber through Rock and Snow.
Frodo slips on some shale.as he scrambles to his feet, the Ring falls on the ground.
the ring gleaming in the snow! Boromir's Hand picks it up by the chain.he stands, the ring dangling before his eyes.
He seems to grow in stature, as if absorbing its power.
Aragorn warily approaches Boromir.
Boromir is motionless.
he stares at the ring, as if transfixed.
Boromir smiles at Frodo, ruffling his hair.
ARAGON unhands his sword.
Following the crows as they race deeper and deeper, passing a vista of Industry, Hundreds of Orcs and writhing Birthsacks.flying past Saruman, who stands upon a wooden Gantry.
THE FELLOWSHIP are struggling through a blinding blizzard, up towards the PASS OF CARADHRAS.
Legolas the Elf moves lightly across the top of the snow.he suddenly pauses.
MERRY and PIPPIN shivering in Boromir's arms.
Frodo meets Gandalf's eye.
FRODO, the weight of the decision weighing heavily upon him.
The Fellowship are walking along the far shore of dark lake.directly below great looming cliffs.
Footing is treacherous on the narrow strip of green and greasy stones.
Gandalf touches the smooth rock wall between the trees.
slowly, faint lines appear like slender veins of luminous silver running through the stone.
A large moon rises over the mountains.
The lines grow Broader and Clearer, forming a glowing arch of interlacing ancient letters and symbols.
Gandalf raises his arms.
Gandalf raises his eyebrows.
With that, the rock face silently divides in the middle and two great Doors swing outwards revealing a blackness deeper than the night.
As the Fellowship enter the Blackness, something in the water stirs.
The Fellowship step warily into the darkness of Moria.a Dank cavern, with winding steps leading deeper into the mountain.
A Glow from Gandalf's Staff suddenly lights the chamber.
The Fellowship recoil in Horror! Many dwarf Skeletons are strewn about, clearly the dead of some old battle.the rusting armor and shields are peppered with arrows and axes.
The Fellowship draw swords and back away, towards the Entrance.
Frodo is suddenly PULLED TO THE GROUND.
A long sinuous Tentacle is wrapped around Frodo's ankle and is dragging him towards the lake.
FRODO CRIES OUT as Aragorn and Boromir rush forward!
Aragorn severs the Tentacleholding Frodo, and pulls him to safety.Boromir hacks at the other Writhing Limbs.
more tentacles ripple out of the Lake! The dark water Boils as the hideous beast lashes out at the FELLOWSHIP!
Again the creature grabs Frodo and pulls him to the lake, Frodo is flung in the air as the Fellowship battle the creature.
Aragorn hacks at a tentacle.Frodo is released, falling into Boromir's arms.
Legolas shoots an Arrow into the creature's head, gaining a few vital seconds for Aragorn and Boromir as they race out of the water with Frodo.
The FELLOWSHIP hurriedly back away from the Creature.
Retreating into the Moria Chamber as many Coiling arms seize the large doors.
With a shattering echo, the creature rips the doors away, creating a rock slide that crashes down the Cliff Face.
Within seconds, tons of rock seal the doorway, throwing the Fellowship into Pitch Blackness.
A faint light rises from Gandalf's staff, throwing a Creepy Glow across the old wizards face.
the Fellowship crossing a precarious bridge above deep mine workings.
They continue up a steep stair, passing through a dwarf cemetery.
The graves are despoiled.dwarf skeletons are strewn about and Goblin Graffiti is scrawled on monuments in dried Dwarf blood.
The Atmosphere is very sinister.
The path splits into three passages.each disappearing into dark tunnels.
Gandalf pauses, frowning.
The Fellowship are nervously waiting.while Gandalf sits, staring intently at the 3 tunnel mouths in front of him.
He appears to be in some kind of trance.
a sudden glimpse of a creature darting in the darkness.
Frodo is nervous.he approaches Gandalf.
and emaciated, leering creature, blazes like a silent Flash of Lightning.
Unnerved, Pippin backs away nervously.He stumbles against the well, sending a precariously balanced Armored skeleton tumbling in!.
Gandalf turns angrily on Pippin.
They fall silent.
Sam's eyes glance at Frodo's belt.
Frodo looks down.
A cold blue glow is emanating from Sting's Scabbard! Frodo draws the Sword.and stares at its glowing blade.
Aragorn and Boromir slam and wedge the doors.
Boromir catches sight of something; he turns to Aragorn with shock in his eyes.
Gimli snatches up two rusty dwarf axes and leaps onto the tomb.
BOOM! The Door bursts open in a shower of wood fragments, and Goblins charge into the tomb, followed by a huge cave troll! Gimli ducks a blow and immediately buries his Axes in 2 Goblin helmets.
Aragorn and Boromir wade into the mass of Goblins with their swords.
Legolas fires deadly arrows into Goblin throats, desperately trying to Shield the Hobbits! Gandalf is clutching his sword and joins in the battle! The cave troll is sweeping his club at Aragorn.who stumbles backwards.
The huge club descends for the killing blow.suddenly, in a flash of steel, Boromir's long sword slices into the Scaly arm of the troll; it rears back, spewing green blood! Sam is backing up against a wall.a sword in one hand, a saucepan in the other.
In desperation he swings wildly at a Goblin with a saucepan! It keels over.Sam looks surprised.
He wallops another Goblin and it too, drops.
The Cave Troll lunges forward, thrusting at Frodo's chest with his spear.
Sam screams as Frodo is lifted off his feet by the spear tip and slammed against the wall.
The hobbits go crazy.
Sam slashes at the cave troll's knee, bringing him down.Merry and Pippin jump on him.Legolas fires an arrow.and the cave troll topples, dead.
Aragorn rushes to Frodo's side as he slumps to the floor.Frodo appears to be dead.
Gandalf, Aragorn, Hobbits looking horrified.
Suddenly Frodo coughs.takes a huge breath.
Frodo open his shirt to reveal the Mithril Vest.
Gandalf leads the fellowship into the huge Dwarrowdelf Chamber.
They hurry towards a distant door.as Goblins start scuttling down the Pillars behind them, like cockroaches!
Frodo looks with horror at the overwhelming Goblin army that's rushing toward them!
SUDDENLY! A deafening roar fills the air! A fiery light dances down the hallway.
They back Fearfully away from the approaching beast.melting into the darkness.
the pillars casting eerie shadows.
The Goblins freeze.
A HUGE SHADOW, surrounded by flame, falls across the hall.the ground shakes.an unearthly sound rumbles.
Aragorn hesitates.Gandalf looks at him.
Aragorn looks at Gandalf, concerned.
GANDALF glowers at the young Hobbit.
Aragorn leads the fellowship to the top of a dizzying stairway.Gandalf follows, leaning heavily on his staff.
THE FELLOWSHIP race down the stairway, Aragorn picks up Frodo.leaping across a gaping chasm.
A NARROW BRIDGE, spanning a bottomless pit.Gandalf yells to the others: Aragorn makes to throw Gimli across the Chasm.
They race towards the slender bridge of stone.without kerb or rail.at the far end of the hall.
The Fellowship recklessly hurry over the dizzying bridge.but Gandalf.
the last.pauses in the middle of the span.he faces the Balrog.staff in one hand.Sword in the other! Frodo looks back in horror.
The BALROG, a massive creature rises from a chasm, a great foot man-beast, with a mane of flames!.
In one hand is a blade.like a stabbing tongue of fire; in the other, a WHIP of many thongs.
Frodo watches as the Balrog puts one foot on the bridge and draws up to Full Height, wings spreading from wall-to-wall.
Gandalf is a tiny figure, balanced precariously on the narrow bridge.
Gandalf lets go his grip and falls away.
following the Balrog into the bottomless Abyss! Frodo cries out! Boromir scoops him up and carries him away.
FRODO SLOWLY TURNS.a look of numb shock on his devastated face.
The Fellowship marches on.
Aragorn scours ahead of the company, as they stumble on in the fading light.in the distance the shimmer of a large forest can be seen.Lothlorien.
The fellowship run across a forest floor strewn with yellow flowers.above is a roof of golden leaves, held up by silver pillars.the trunks of huge, grey trees.
Gimli looks nervously around.
The FELLOWSHIP are suddenly surrounded by ARMED ELVES.
Deadly arrows aimed at their heads.
HALDIR, the Elvish captain steps forward.
he looks at Gimli with disdain.
Haldir's eyes lock onto Frodo.
Haldir leads the Fellowship onto a Hill Top.
They look with wonderment at the vista spread before them.
Several miles towards the South, a Large Hill rises out of the woods.
Upon the hill rise many mighty Mallorn Trees, taller than any others.Nestled high in the crown of the mallorns is a Beautiful City.
It Gleams in the low rays of the late afternoon sun.green, gold, and silver.
Beyond the River, the land appears flat and empty, formless and vague, until far away, it rises again like a dark and dreary wall.
The Sun that lies on Lothlorien has not power to enlighten the shadows that lie beyond step onto a wide fleet filled with a soft light.
The walls are green and silver, the roof gold and in its midst is the trunk of the might Mallorn tree, now tapering toward its crown.
Celeborn steps forward to greet the guests.
His hair is long and silver, his face grave and beautiful, with no sign of age upon it.
Next to him stands Galadriel, the Lady of the Elves.
She has hair of deep gold and timeless, unsurpassed beauty.
Frodo looks at Galadriel, standing silently beside Celeborn.
Moonlight catches the trace of tears on Boromir's face.
Galadriel's eyes settle on Sam.
Gimli, Legolas, Merry, Pippin, Frodo and Sam are in a pavilion set among the trees near the fountain.
They lie on soft couches as Elves leave food and wine for them.
Aragorn kneels down beside him.
BOROMIR looks at ARAGORN in despair.
Boromir feels Aragorn's love for Minas Tirith and takes heart.
Aragorn returns Boromir's smile.betraying his disquiet sadness only when Boromir looks away.
The Fellowship are asleep on their beds.
BARE FEET tread soundlessly across the lawn.
Frodo's eyes flicker open.as if by instinct.
GALADRIEL, her White dress glowing in the moonlight, glances at him.
Frodo follows her.as if drawn by an invisible force.
Upon a low stone pedestal, carved like a branching tree, sits a shallow Silver Basin.
Galadriel pours water into the basin from a silver jug.a glow rises from the water.
Frodo slowly steps up to the pedestal.he peers into the glossy surface.
The night sky is reflected into the water.
Frodo leans closer to the mirror's surface.
FRODO gasps, his face lighting up with hope.
Galadriel looks at Frodo intensely.Frodo looks down.in his hand he is clutching the ring.
Frodo looks up at Galadriel.
Galadriel suddenly seems to rise in stature before Frodo's eyes.
Frodo is suddenly afraid of her.
Galadriel suddenly laughs.a slender Elf-woman once more, clad in simple white, her voice soft and sad.
Frodo realizes what her message is.
The Ring lies in the palm of Frodo's hand.his fingers close over it.
Naked, Lurtz's eyes follow Saruman, alight with a mean intelligence.
The URUK- HAI are smearing themselves in white paint.a creepy ritualistic ceremony.the white hand of Isengard is smeared on bodies, faces, and armor.
LURTZ is quickly armored.Breastplate.Leg guards, Helmet.a sword is thrust in Lurtz's hand.
SARUMAN address a crowd of fully armed URUK-HAI.
Lurtz is leading URUK-HAI out of Isengard.they run fast, their powerful legs carrying them at speed.
The Fellowship are in small elven boats.
Elves quietly watch them depart.
They row away from the Lothlorien Shore into the Silverlode river.
In his head, Frodo still hears her voice.
Galadriel gives Frodo a small Crystal Phial.
As the Fellowship's boats drift past, Galadriel stands alone, watching from the banks of the river.
The boats pass into the great river Anduin.
The Three Elven boats carry the Fellowship steadily southward.
Green trees slowly give way to a brown and withered land.
The Uruk forces are running through the trees with deadly purpose.
Aragorn watches them with concern.
The Three Elven boats drift slowly through the steep rocky gorge in the Pre-dawn light.
ARAGORN, slowly paddling in the stern.
Frodo slowly looks up, his eyes widening with amazement.
Aragorn.strangely moved by the beauty of the silent sentinels.
He speaks, almost as if to himself.
Two enormous rock statues, towering like foot pinnacles on either side of the river.carved images of Gondorian kings of old.
They loom over the boats with power and majesty.
The fellowship stare in stunned silence as the current takes them through the narrow gap between the Statues' feet.
Craning up past the statues vast crumbling heads, to reveal a large lake only a mile down river.
As they leap out of the boats and clamber onto the wooded shore.
Legolas turns to Aragorn with urgency.
Aragorn looks at Legolas, knowing full well what he means.
Legolas casts a glance around into the Parth Galen forest.
Sam has slumped asleep.Merry dumps a small pile of kindling at Gimli's feet.
Sam sits up with a start.Aragorn's head snaps round.his eyes fly to Boromir's shield which lies abandoned by his camp bed.
as he realizes Boromir has gone.
Frodo is walking beneath the trees.lost in thought.
Frodo turns slowly.he stares at Boromir, tense, cautious.
Boromir has started forward towards Frodo, he pulls himself up.
Frodo steps hurriedly away from Boromir.
Frodo turns to leave.
Boromir leaps on top of Frodo, grasping for the ring! Frodo has only moments to act.
Frodo rips the ring from around his neck.and rams it on his finger.
FRODO races through the misty twilight world, past the foggy shapes of twisted trees.
Somewhere behind him, Boromir's distraught voice carries from another dimension.
A mountain of iron, immeasurably strong, tower of adamant: Barad-dur, FORTRESS OF SAURON.
Frodo suddenly finds himself on the stone steps.he clambers up the stairs, onto a high seat, perched on four stone pillars.
Frodo cowers on the seat, like a lost child upon the throne of mountain kings.
The world of mist swirls around him.
Frodo peers out from the seat.the world seems to shrink.
In all directions, Views of far off lands telescope towards him through the mist.
They will fall! Frodo leaps off the seat, and tumbles down the stairs! The eye sweeps Amon Hen like a searchlight, seeking its ring! With a huge effort, Frodo wrenches the ring off his finger.
Frodo lies gasping on the summit of Amon Hen.below the ancient ruins of the seeing seat.
Frodo looks up as Aragorn towers over him.
Frodo backs away from Aragorn.Aragorn is shocked by the movement.
Frodo uncurls his fist.in is palm lies the ring! It glints, gold and beautiful in the afternoon sun.Aragorn's eyes are drawn to it.
Aragorn freezes! He draws his sword.
Frodo hesitates.
Frodo backs away into the trees.as URUK-HAI SWARM onto Amon Hen behind Aragorn! Aragorn attacks the leading URUK-HAI like a madman.
he brings two down with his sword.leaping into the ruins as others close in on him.
Sam looks around for Frodo.
Aragorn battles the URUK-HAI, amongst the pillars and blocks of Amon Hen.
LURTZ ordering his.
Frodo scrambles down the hillside, away from the fight.
Frodo is darting down the steep hillside as heave feet thunder down behind him.
ELVEN ARROWS smash into the URUK-HAI.
Legolas races out of the woods, firing his bow.
Gimli leaps into the battle, wielding his might axe.
Frodo stumbles and falls.quickly he crawls behind a tree.above him the sound of Uruk-Hai crashing through the forest rings out.
Frodo turns to see Merry and Pippin hidden in a hollow, a few feet away.
Frodo looks at his friends.
slowly shakes his head, a great sadness in his eyes.
Merry's eyes meet Frodo's.
Understanding.
Pippin stands and makes a move toward Frodo.Merry grabs at his arm.
Aragorn desperately slashes his way towards Boromir, felling URUK-HAI in his path.while Legolas and Gimli fight a rear guard action.
MANY URUK-HAI fall to Boromir's sword as he tries to protect Merry and Pippin.
Lurtz takes aim.
A black arrow suddenly thuds into Boromir's chest.
Amazingly, Boromir continues fighting, but another arrow.and another, brings him to his knees.
Merry and Pippin are scooped off their feet by URUK-HAI.
Boromir holds Aragorn's gaze.
Aragorn places Boromir's sword in his hand.
Boromir's fingers tighten around the hilt.
Frodo looks to the far side of the river.the camera moves in on the ring.
Tears fall down Frodo's face.
With renewed determination, Frodo tucks the ring inside his vest pocket.
The small figure of Frodo pushing the Elvish boat into the water.
Sam bursts through the trees and runs toward the lake.Frodo is already paddling away.
Sam starts to go under, spluttering and coughing.Frodo drops his paddle and scrambles backwards in the boat.
Sam is underwater.hands flailing helplessly as he sinks.
Frodo's hand grasping Sam's.
Frodo pulls a bedraggled and half drowned Sam into the boat.
Frodo and Sam look at each other, out of breath, tears and water streaming down both their faces.
Frodo starts to laugh through his tears.the two friends hug.
The two Hobbits row through the water.
Slow motion: Looking down on swiftly flowing water.Boromir's body slides under camera.
He is lying in one of the boats, his arms across his chest.his broken horn at his side.
Suddenly the boat drops away from camera as it plunges over the massive falls of Rauros, disappearing into the vapor below.
Legolas turns and looks at Aragorn.
Aragorn looks towards the far shore; Frodo and Sam's small Boat can be seen lying on the distant Riverbank as Frodo and Sam make off into the forest beyond.
Aragorn pulls a HUNTING KNIFE out of his pack and straps it on.
Frodo looks at Sam with great affection.despite the grim outlook, Sam is undeterred.
THE END.
DEAGOL pulls on his ROD, but is HAULED OVERBOARD and disappears underwater with a SPLASH! ANGLE ON: SMEAGOL leaning over the BOAT.
DEAGOL turns to look at him, a smirk on his face.
SMEAGOL moves towards DEAGOL.
SMEAGOL jumps on DEAGOL.STRANGLING HIM! SMEAGOL rips the GLITTERING RING from DEAGOL'S LIMP HAND.
SMEAGOL slips the RING onto his FINGER.
SMEAGOL descending into madness.
His body TWISTS and DISTORTS.
he becomes a CREEPY, SHRIVELLED wretch.
finally crawling into a DARK CAVE beneath the MISTY MOUNTAINS.
A GRIM LANDSCAPE, covered in THORN BUSHES and the scars of RECENT FIRES.
The DARK MORGUL VALLEY disappears up towards the MOUNTAINS.
FRODO and SAM in a FILTHY CULVERT.
SAM twitches in a RESTLESS SLEEP.
But FRODO is awake.
His hand trails down to the CHAIN around his NECK.
A SUDDEN HISS! FRODO quickly hides the RING as GOLLUM peers at them with GLEAMING EYES.
SAM STIRS, looks at FRODO.
FRODO shakes his HEAD.
SAM looks at the dead, BROWN TWILIGHT, below the LOWERING.
The days are growing darker.
The GROUND suddenly QUIVERS, as a ROLLING, RUMBLING NOISE ECHOES down the VALLEY.
SAM shoots GOLLUM a HOSTILE LOOK and turns back to rummage in his KNAPSACK.
He holds up a piece of dried LEMBAS BREAD to FRODO.
FRODO looks at SAM questioningly.
FRODO and SAM follow GOLLUM as he leads them on the wining, torturous path.
clambering through BRACKEN and over JAGGED ROCKS.
GANDALF leads ARAGORN, LEGOLAS, THEODEN and GIMLI through dark woodland.
The MOVING FOREST of FANGORN.
opens before them.
creating an AVENUE of TREES, which allows them access along the old ISENGARD ROAD.
A THICK, HUMID MIST fills the forest.
The Return of the King ANGLE ON: The FOEST SEPARATES ahead, REVEALING: the RUINS of.
All about, the GREAT STONE WALL is cracked and splintered into countless jagged shards.
Far off, half veiled int he swirling STEAM, the TOWER of ORTHANC stands.
Unbroken by the storm.
Pale waters lap about its feet.
TWO SMALL HOBBITS are sitting on the SMASHED WALL .MERRY and PIPPIN! SPREAD before them is a feast of BREADS, MEATS and WINE.
They PUFF on long pipes as they lie back in the SUN.
MERRY cuts PIPPIN off before he can respond in kind.
GANDALF, ARAGORN, LEGOLAS and GIMLI stare at the SIGHT before them.
GANDALF leads the company through the flotsam and jetsam which floats upon the muddied waters surrounding the TOWER.
TREEBEARD, the GIANT ENT, strides towards them, ALARMING all but GANDALF.
GANDALF stares up the long length of the DARK TOWER.
THE OLD ENT nods his head wisely.
PIPPIN, his eye caught by something lying in the water.
The MUDDY waters GLOWING wit a golden light.
ARAGORN turns as, quick as a FLASH, PIPPIN has jumped off his horse and picked up -- the PALANTIR.
RELUCTANTLY, PIPPIN hands the PALANTIR to GANDALF.
who immediately smothers it in his cloak.
GANDALF looks back at PIPPIN troubled.
BACK SHOT - a GROUP OF RIDERS gallop towards the ROHAN CITY of EDORAS.
EOWYN standing alone outside the GOLDEN HALL, waiting.
A ROARING FIRE; a LAMB ROASTING on SPIT; LONG TABLES laden with FOOD; BARRELS of WINE; a banquet is-laid ready for the returning soldiers.
Amidst the cheering crowd, EOWYN moves towards ARAGORN.
As she proffers the CHALICE their eyes meet.
EOWYN looks at her UNCLE, as THEODEN follows her gaze.
EOWYN looks at him questioningly, disturbed by his tone.
EOWYN watches concerned as her UNCLE moves away.
MERRY & PIPPIN are in full voice, on top of one of the TABLES.
both hold very large mugs of ALE in their hands.
GANDALF laughing and clapping the HOBBITS.
ARAGORN steps up beside him, SMILING at the floorshow.
GANDALF turns quickly to ARAGORN.
GANDALF watches his friend's face.
seeking reassurance.
FRODO and SAM lie asleep amidst scrubby bushes near a stagnant pool.
SMEAGOL lies nearby, muttering in his sleep.
SMEAGOL wakes suddenly, shaking, his face drenched in SWEAT, eyes wide in horror.
SMEAGOL'S features suddenly transform into the MALEVOLENT face of GOLLUM.
SMEAGOL casts a quick glance over his SHOULDER to the SLEEPING figures of FRODO and SAM as he clambers off his ROCK.
silently sidling towards the EDGE of a STAGNANT POOL.
SMEAGOL stares into the MURKY depths of the WATER.
The SURFACE RIPPLES as the face of GOLLUM appears as SMEAGOL'S.
SMEAGOL choking DEAGOL.
Fingers locked tight around his THROAT.
his EYES flicker OPEN.
SAM image mirrored in the water as he SMACKS GOLLUM on the HEAD with his POT.
SAM drops the POT and FLINGS himself ON TOP of GOLLUM!
GOLLUM SCREAMS,his ARMS and LEGS FLAILING WILDLY.
FRODO staggers over to SAM and PULLS HIM OFF GOLLUM.
GOLLUM, huddled on the ground SOBBING and SAM makes for SMEAGOL again with a look of MURDEROUS RAGE.
FRODO grabs SAM'S ARM.
SAM pulls away from FRODO.
SAM stares at FRODO at a loss.
SAM, his face softening.
FRODO beckons to GOLLUM.
GOLLUM turns slowly, staring at SAM through hooded, HATE- FILLED EYES.
and SMILES.
ARAGORN joins LEGOLAS on the STEPS to the GOLDEN HALL, oblivious to the CHILL WIND.
they look out across the SLEEPING CITY to the LOOMING MOUNTAIN RANGE BEYOND.
DARK CLOUDS mark the sky.
LEGOLAS looks at ARAGORN.
realisation in his face.
he is AWAKE! He sits up.
ANXIOUS.
Suddenly he hops out of bed and creeps towards the SLEEPING FORM of GANDALF.
PIPPIN gasps with FRIGHT! MERRY is sitting up, wiping sleep from his eyes.
He moves on.
A sleeping GANDALF lies with eyes wide open! But PIPPIN is undeterred.
MERRY sits up, a worried look on his face.
PIPPIN unwraps the PALANTIR and as MERRY looks on HORRIFIED, he gazes INTENTLY into it.
As PIPPIN lays his hands on the CRYSTAL, a SICKLY PALE light slowly spreads from the GLASS BALL onto PIPPIN'S FACE.
PIPPIN suddenly starts to HYPERVENTILATE.
THE GREAT EYE OF SAURON seems to LEAP from the FIRE.
PIPPIN is bathed in the FIERY RED LIGHT.
PIPPIN sinks to his KNEES, his mouth open in a soundless SCREAM.
He FALLS BACKWARDS, powerless to release the FIERY.
GANDALF wakes with a start! Just as ARAGORN enters, and wrenches the PALANTIR from PIPPIN'S HANDS.
ARAGORN spins away, reeling backwards, the PALANTIR falling from his HANDS.
The PALANTIR rolls across the FLOOR, causing EVERYONE in the room to COWER BACK.
GANDALF throws a BLANKET over it, ANGRY DISBELIEF on his face! He rounds on PIPPIN.
GANDALF lifts the HOBBIT'S SLUMPED HEAD.
A lone white tree silhouetted by flames.
GANDALF stares at PIPPIN with a FRIGHTENING.
THEODEN stands in the GOLDEN HALL, gravely listening to GANDALF.
ARAGORN, LEGOLAS, and GIMLI look on.
GIMLI lets out a sigh of relief.
GANDALF turns to look at THEODEN.
GANDALF looks from on to the other of the, gathered company.
The WIZARD turns towards ARAGORN.
THEODEN listens intently, saying nothing.
he knows GANDALF SPEAKS THE TRUTH.
GANDALF rounds on THEODEN.
THEODEN holds GANDALF'S gaze.
ARAGORN turns to look at THEODEN.
GANDALF turns on his heel.
GANDALF hurries along the STREETS.
PIPPIN and MERRY run alongside trying to KEEP UP.
PIPPIN catches up to MERRY.
MERRY turns away.
This is too much for MERRY.
He turns on PIPPIN.
PIPPIN'S face as MERRY strides away.
PIPPIN is dumped unceremoniously onto the back of SHADOWFAX as GANDALF hurriedly prepares to leave.
MERRY thrusts a SMALL PACKAGE into PIPPIN'S HAND.
PIPPIN stares down at the leather-bound bundle of PIPE-WEED.
A WORRIED MERRY exchanges glances with GANDALF.
GANDALF mounts SHADOWFAX.
GANDALF spurs the GREAT HORSE forward.
SHADOWFAX thunders out of the STABLES! CLOSE ON: MERRY'S devastated face.
SHADOWFAX carried GANDALF and PIPPIN out of the GATE and down the WINDING ROAD towards the PLAINS QF ROHAN.
MERRY clambers up a WATCHTOWER, ARAGORN in pursuit.
The SMALL FIGURE as he watches his best friend DISAPPEAR into the DISTANCE.
he knows what it is to lose someone.
ARWEN -- escorted by a SMALL ENTOURAGE of ELVES -- rides through the gathering darkness of a PINE FOREST.
As ARWEN rides through the FOREST the FIGURE of a SMALL BOY of about 5 SUDDENLY runs across the path in front of her.
ARWEN reigns in ASFALOTH.
something about the BOY intrigues her -- but she does not know why.
As ARWEN watches the BOY moves away, the TREES begin to thin.
the BOY continues running.
One by one the TREES TRANSFORM into TALL WHITE PILLARS.
The BOY now stands within a VISION of the majestic architecture of the great Gondorian city of MINAS.
A SILHOUETTED FIGURE appears in the distance and moves towards the CHILD.
the BOY runs to the FIGURE.
ARWEN watches as the FIGURE holds out its arms -- swinging the LAUGHING CHILD into the AIR.
The figure turns to reveal.
ARAGORN, a little older, dressed in the casual finery of a GONDORIAN NOBLE.
The CHILD, now in ARAGORN'S ARMS looks directly at ARWEN.
it is a QUIET LOOK filled with INFINITE SADNESS.
ARWEN'S eyes drop to the CHILD'S CHEST.
around the CHILD'S neck hangs the EVENSTAR.
ARWEN as she realizes she is staring at a future that can never be, the CHILD she and ARAGORN will never have.
ELROND speaking to his daughter.
ARWEN shuts her eyes.
when she opens them again the VISION is gone.
she is staring at DARK TREES once more.
ARWEN turns towards her COMPANION who stares at her, concerned.
ARWEN wheels ASFALOTH around.
riding away.
ARWEN'S HORSE gallops over the BRIDGE and through the GATES into RIVENDELL.
ELROND seated alone.
ARWEN runs up the STEPS towards him.
ELROND stands -- stunned.
ARWEN breathing hard, walking towards ELROND with a fierce light in her eyes.
ELROND his face grim.
Her father turns away.
ELROND stares into space, the fight seems to go out of him.
He won't look at her.
ARWEN gently takes her FATHER'S face in her hands and turns him toward her.
A HOODED FIGURE ascends a CURVED STAIRCASE towards a GALLERY.
The FIGURE stops before a STATUE that holds the BROKEN SHARDS of an ancient sword in its arms.
The BLADE shattering in several fragments as ISLIDUR brandishes NARSIL at SAURON.
The HOODED FIGURE looks up into the sorrowful face of the STATUE.
The figure is ARWEN.
ELROND stares at his daughter, unwavering.
A BROKEN SWORD GLOWS with RED HEAT.
It's BLADE in SEVERAL FRAGMENTS.
A HEAVY HAMMER pounds the RED-HOT BLADE on an ANVIL.
As ELVEN-SMITHS TEMPER the STEEL.
ELROND'S FACE lit by FLICKERING FIRE as SPARKS fly in.
the RIVENDELL FORGE.
The SWORD is withdrawn from a POOL OF STEAMING WATER.
LIGHT SHIMMERS as the WATER DROPS slide down the BLADE of NARSIL, the SWORD that was broken has been remade.
PIPPIN asleep.
GANDALF'S PROTECTIVE ARM around him as SHADOWFAX THUNDERS through the NIGHT.
SHADOWFAX powers along the COUNTRYSIDE.
PIPPIN, huddled in front of GANDALF, the WIND sailing through his hair.
SHADOWFAX gallops up onto a LOW RIDGE.
Before them is the DARK MASS of Mount Mindolluin, its tall WHITE FACE whitening in the RISING SUN.
Upon its outthrust knee is the Guarded City: MINAS TIRITH.
With SEVEN WALLS OF WHITE STONE, so strong and old that it seems to have been not built, MINAS TIRITH looks carven by giants out of the bones of the earth.
Suddenly the SUN climbs over the eastern hills, and sends forth a SHAFT OF SUNLIGHT that GLEAMS against the face of the CITY.
The TOWER OF ECTHELION stands high within the topmost walls.
GANDALF steering SHADOWFAX up the STEEP STREETS of MINAS.
The stares of frightened GONDORIANS as GANDALF and PIPPIN gallop through the WINDING STREETS.
AERIAL SHOT: SHADOWFAX, carrying GANDALF and PIPPIN up towards the LEVEL.
MINAS TIRITH is built in 7 LEVELS -- each behind a CIRCULAR DEFENSIVE WALL.
Each level rises -- the city reaches a height of nearly FEET on its TOPMOST LEVEL.
A towering BASTION of NATURAL ROCK -- shaped like a sharp ship's prow -- bisects the city from the LEVEL to the.
SHADOWFAX arrives at a GREAT CITADEL on the SUMMIT of the CITY -- FEET above the PELENNOR FIELDS.
GANDALF and PIPPIN dismount, leaving the GUARDS of the CITADEL to tend to SHADOWFAX.
GANDALF hurries off.
PIPPIN as he takes in his surroundings, his eye caught by a DEAD TREE that stands in the middle of the COURT, FOUR SOLEMN CITADEL GUARDS standing sentry around it.
GANDALF leads PIPPIN across a FLAT COURT of WHITE STONES, surrounded by GREEN LAWNS towards a GREAT HALL beneath.
PIPPIN, suitably chastened, nods.
A LONG SOLEMN HALL with ROWS OF BLACK MARBLE PILLARS.
Between the pillars stand a silent company of TALL KINGS carved in cold STONE.
GANDALF strides down the HALL, with PIPPIN following obediently behind.
At the FAR END, upon a DAIS OF MANY STEPS, sits a LARGE, EMPTY THRONE.
On the wall behind is the IMAGE of a FLOWERING WHITE TREE set in GEMS. 
At the FOOT of the DAIS, in a small STONE CHAIR, sits an OLD MAN, gazing at his lap: DENETHOR -- the Lord Steward of.
DENETHOR slowly raises COLD EYES.
DENETHOR holds up BOROMIR'S BROKEN HORN.
PIPPIN remembering.
BOROMIR, as URUK-HAI arrows thud into his body, he falls to his KNEES.
PIPPIN starts forward unable to say nothing.
DENETHOR pain flickers in his eyes.
PIPPIN drops to his knee offering DENETHOR his SWORD.
DENETHOR looks at PIPPIN blankly, overcome with grief.
DENETHOR gaze turns slowly on GANDALF.
DENETHOR smiles at GANDALF, as if amused by something.
GANDALF looks shocked, DENETHOR'S eyes NARROW.
PIPPIN, horrified.
GANDALF looks at Denethor closely for a moment, then turns on his heel to leave, PIPPIN follows.
GANDALF and PIPPIN stride from the TOWER HALL.
DENETHOR slumps back into his SEAT.
PIPPIN is carefully laying out a SMALL UNIFORM of the ROYAL GUARD on a bed.
GANDALF STANDING QUIETLY on a BALCONY that overlooks the GREAT CITY.
PIPPIN as he stares up at the vast NIGHT SKY.
GANDALF watches the young HOBBIT.
GANDALF joins PIPPIN as they look towards the distant, jagged MOUNTAINS of MORDOR.
PIPPIN looks up at him, unnerved.
GANDALF gives him a small self-deprecating smile.
GANDALF and PIPPIN share a quiet moment as they stare out towards the FIERY SKY over MORDOR.
GIANT MUMAKIL carrying ARMIES upon their backs.
CORSAIR SHIPS sail up the RIVER.
He is almost talking to himself now, like a man unable to prevent a sure disaster.
The BATTLE-SCARRED CITY of OSGILIATH -- last bastion between MINAS TIRITH and MORDOR.
PIPPIN desperately seeking reassurance.
GANDALF looks down at PIPPIN, he says nothing.
GANDALF stares into the distance as if seeing something in his mind's eye.
A TOWERING, HOODED FIGURE, DRESSED in BLACK, is being dressed in ARMOUR by attendant ORCS.
GANDALF still staring intently as if facing his enemy in person.
PIPPIN looks up at GANDALF, afraid to ask.
FRODO screaming as the MORGUL BLADE is driven into his SHOULDER.
PIPPIN blanches at the MEMORY.
FRODO and SAM clamber into a SMALL GULLY beside a ROUGH-HEWN ROAD.
GOLLUM CAREFULLY peers OVER the lip of the GULLY.
MINAS MORGUL, a MASSIVE DEAD CITY, set upon a ROCKY KNEE at the HEAD OF THE morgul valley.
CORRUPT and LOATHSOME, it glows with a SICKLY LUMINOUS LIGHT -- like a CORPSE CANDLE.
TWO HUGE, BESTIAL STONE STATUES guard the BRIDGE that leads to the CITY.
GOLLUM, FRODO and SAM hurry from their COVER scampering in the SHADOWS towards MINAS MORGUL.
He LOOKS UP at the HIDEOUS STATUES.
FRODO and SAM look AGHAST at the sight of a NARROW, NEARVERTICAL STAIRCASE, cut into the ROCK-FACE.
Directly in FRONT of the MINAS MORGUL GATES.
Following the STAIRS.
HIGHER and HIGHER up the sheer western side of the MORGUL VALLEY -- to the HIGH PEAKS of the razor-like MOUNTAINS OF MORDOR.
SUDDENLY! FRODO staggers across the ROAD, as if some FORCE, other than his own will, is at work!
He lurches towards the BRIDGE.
Towards MINAS MORGUL.
SAM runs after FRODO, catching him in his arms as he STUMBLES.
SAM and GOLLUM pull FRODO from the BRIDGE.
FRODO falls to the GROUND.
AT THAT MOMENT: the GROUND QUIVERS, and a great RUMBLING NOISE rolls across the ground and ECHOES in the mountains.
The cold, dull MORGUL VALLEY is suddenly VIOLENT and FIERCE, as UPRUSHING FLAME springs from MOUNT DOOM.
MINAS MORGUL ANSWERS: A FLARE of LIVID LIGHTNING, FORKS of BLUE FLAME, SPRING UP from the TOWER into the SULLEN CLOUD.
VIOLENT FIERY FLASHES light the CLOUD above MORDOR.
SHARP THUNDER rolls across MILES to MINAS TIRITH.
PIPPIN looking on in FRIGHTENED AWE.
SAM and GOLLUM lead FRODO to the STAIRS.
ABOVE MINAS MORGUL the SKY is BRIGHT with LIGHT as the CITY, erupts.
FACES of SOLDIERS and CIVILIANS of MINAS TIRITH as they watch from the PARAPETS of the CITY.
FRODO and SAM sink to the ground, holding their hands against their ears, as out of the CITY comes a RENDING SCREECH.
SHIVERING, rising swiftly to a PIERCING PITCH beyond the range of hearing.
The terrible CRY ends, falling back through a long sickening WAIL, to SILENCE.
He squeezes his eyes shut, clutching at his SHIRT as if it's on FIRE.
THE CAVERNOUS GATE of MINAS MORGUL swings OPEN.
A HUGE ARMY MARCHES OUT! RANK upon RANK of ARMOUR CLAD ORCS, moving SWIFTLY and SILENTLY, pass close to FRODO and SAM in an ENDLESS STREAM of RAGGED COLUMNS.
75,ORCS MARCHING TO WAR, just below FRODO.
FRODO, SAM and GOLLUM climb the STONY STAIRS high above the MARCHING ARMY.
GANDALF thinking, calculating.
GANDALF striding BACK STREETS of the CITY, so DETERMINED and PURPOSEFUL is he, that PIPPIN has to RUN to keep up.
GANDALF suddenly stops and looks down at PIPPIN.
GANDALF kneels down and looks at PIPPIN earnestly, his hand on PIPPIN'S shoulder.
GANDALF watches as PIPPIN hurries away.
An ANCIENT STONE BRIDGE which spans the RUINS of EAST and WEST OSGILIATH -- a once MIGHTY GONDORIAN CITY.
ITHILIEN RANGERS patrolling the BRIDGE and the WEST OSGILIATH has fallen into disrepair, but the DESOLATION of EAST OSGILIATH is more pronounced -- it is held by the FORCES of MORDOR.
CAMERA tracks down beneath the BRIDGE to the DARK WATERS catching a STEALTHY MOVEMENT.
MANY BOATS, carrying MURDEROUS-LOOKING ORCS, are quietly tracking down the RIVER.
On board several HUNCHED FIGURES steer with LONG OARS.
FARAMIR, CAPTAIN OF CONDOR, as he issues orders to his SOLDIERS.
ITHILIEN RANGERS take position; they are all WEATHERED, HARDENED, PROFESSIONAL SOLDIERS.
Watchful, ready, waiting.
ON THE RIVER the BOATS quietly advance.
FARAMIR and his SOLDIERS lie in wait.
As the BOATS arrive HUNDREDS of ORCS race ashore.
FARAMIR steps out, his SWORD drawn.
A FIERCE BATTLE ensues, but FARAMIR is unable to stop the advance as HUNDREDS OF ORCS cross the WIDE BRIDGE into WEST OSGILIATH.
A DIZZYING VIEW.
Looking down on MINAS TIRITH, FEET BELOW, as PIPPIN desperately scrambles up the ROCKY MOUNTAINSIDE.
PIPPIN clambers over a ROCKY LEDGE and ducks behind a STONE WALL panting HEAVILY.
An ancient STONE LEDGE holds a GREAT PILE of FIREWOOD, secured in stacked bundles.
The MINAS TIRITH.
GANDALF as he waits tensely below.
PIPPIN as he stealthily manages to POUR OIL on the WOOD and set a FLAME to it! Within SECONDS, the GREAT PYRE is alight! The GUARDS look on in TOTAL SURPRISE as the FLAMES ERUPT into the TWILIGHT SKY.
GANDALF as the BEACONS burst into FLAMES.
His eyes flash briefly with TRIUMPH before he hurries off.
The BEACON glows BRIGHTLY on the slopes of MOUNT MINDOLLUIN, high above MINAS TIRITH.
PULL BACK: GANDALF hurries to the BATTLEMENT, looking further west along the WHITE MOUNTAINS.
DENETHOR staring at the BEACON from the CITADEL WINDOW.
A look of BLACK FURY on his face.
GANDALF, a strange smile plays on his face.
AERIAL SHOT: MOVING over the WHITE MOUNTAINS.
As the TRAIL of GREAT FIRES slowly winds from PEAK TO PEAK.
A ROCKY PEAK high above EDORAS.
A GREAT BEACON FIRE is IGNITED.
A BELL TOLLS urgently! CLOSE ON: ARAGORN looks tensely out across the MOUNTAINS.
PULL BACK: ARAGORN runs towards the GOLDEN HALL.
ARAGORN bursts into the GOLDEN HALL.
THEODEN looks up startled.
EOWYN, EOMER turn to look at their UNCLE.
Tension builds.
THEODEN his head lowered.
Slowly it rises -- he looks ARAGORN in the EYE.
EDORAS LOOKOUT.
A SOLDIER RINGING the GREAT BELL in alarm as below, in the COURTYARD, SOLDIERS mount their STEEDS amid great activity.
THEODEN striding purposefully outside, flanked by EOMER and his SOLDIERS.
THEODEN strides onto the PARAPETS.
THEODEN watches as below the SOLDIERS prepare.
EOWYN hurriedly pulling on RIDING GLOVES, preparing to mount her HORSE.
EOWYN turns and runs SMACK into ARAGORN.
ARAGORN smiles.
Reaching past her, he lifts a cover to reveal a SWORD, strapped to the side of the saddle of her.
EOWYN deftly pulls the cover back down.
She looks at ARAGORN.
PULL BACK: to reveal THEODEN stares around at the STREETS and PEOPLE of EDORAS.
It is as if he knows he will not see this place again.
EOMER astride his horse, calls to the assembled.
THEODEN astride SNOWMANE, as he, EOMER, ARAGORN & MERRY and LEGOLAS & GIMLI ride out AMID a GREAT COLUMN of ROHIRRIM, THUNDERING towards DUNHARROW in the MOUNTAINS.
FARAMIR and his MEN are fighting a losing BATTLE against the MORDOR invasion.
OMINOUS SOUNDS of WIND RISING.
A SUDDEN TERRIFYING SHRIEK rends the AIR.
SOLDIERS RETREATING through the RUINS of the CITY as, high in the sky above, the NAZGUL swoop.
MADRIL as he is cut down by an ORC.
MADRIL his breathing quick and shallow.
The HIDEOUSLY deformed features of GOTHMOG standing over the prone figure of the INJURED RANGER.
Grabbing a spear from a nearby underling, GOTHMOG drives the shaft into MADRIL'S chest.
GOTHMOG surveys the carnage with satisfaction.
FARAMIR and a few survivors flee WEST OSGILIATH, desperately riding toward MINAS TIRITH.
in the SKY above DARK SHAPES pursue them.
SUDDENLY, from on HIGH, the NAZGUL strike! TILT DOWN: following the NAZGUL as it SWOOPS out of LOWLYING, MURKY CLOUDS tossing MEN in the AIR like LIMP RAG-DOLLS! AT THAT MOMENT: Across the PLAIN, a FIGURE clothed in WHITE rides towards them! From the BATTLEMENTS of MINAS TIRITH, a call.
GANDALF as he spurs SHADOWFAX forward! PIPPIN clings tightly to the great horses MANE.
FARAMIR, SWORD in hand, remains at the REAR, trying desperately to fend off the DEADLY ASSAULT.
AGAIN the FELL-BEASTS DIVE low.
GANDALF thunders into view, raising his STAFF.
A SHAFT OF WHITE LIGHT suddenly stabs upwards! The NAZGUL SWERVES AWAY from the LIGHT, as it pierces the LOW CLOUD! For a BRIEF MOMENT, SUNLIGHT streams through the hole onto PELENNOR FIELDS.
The NAZGUL circle away from the SUN RAYS, swiftly spiralling higher and higher.
The NAZGUL defeated, GANDALF and the RANGERS ride towards the safety of MINAS TIRITH.
IORLAS runs towards the GATES, yelling.
The GREAT GATES OPEN, allowing GANDALF, PIPPIN, FARAMIR and the OSGILIATH SURVIVORS to RIDE IN.
Nearly WOUNDED.
AS GANDALF pulls SHADOWFAX up.
FARAMIR STEERS HIS HORSE through the CROWD towards.
FARAMIR suddenly STARES at PIPPIN.
GANDALF reads the surprise in his eyes.
FARAMIR shakes his head.
GANDALF, deeply troubled.
FRODO and SAM following GOLLUM up the dizzying STAIRWAY, carved into the SHEER CLIFF.
The STEPS are NARROW, UNEVENLY SPACED, and many are BROKEN.
They are so STEEP that FRODO and SAM climb as if on a LADDER -- their desperate FINGERS clinging to the STEPS ABOVE -- trying not to look at the LONG BLACK FALL below them.
FRODO'S foot slips and for a brief moment he is HANGING PRECARIOUSLY from the ROCK-FACE.
GOLLUM peering down from ABOVE.
he has reached.
FRODO tries to CLAMBER UP onto the LEDGE.
As he does, the RING slips out of his SHIRT and DANGLES in FULL VIEW of GOLLUM!
LOSE ON: GOLLUM rears back in shock tenses like a CAT.
FRODO, head bowed, trying to pull himself up.
GOLLUM'S FINGERS closing in on the RING.
SAM, still TEETERING on the PRECIPITOUS STAIRS.
STARTLED, FRODO looks down at SAM, losing his footing in the process.
SAM'S horrified face as.
GOLLUM'S out-stretched HAND suddenly GRASPS FRODO'S ARM pulling him SAFELY onto the LEDGE.
GOLLUM glares down at SAM.
GOLLUM blinks, masking the MALICE of his EYES with their heavy pale lids.
GOLLUM creeps CLOSE to FRODO and WHISPERS in his ear.
FRODO looking at SAM.
his hand strays to his NECK, closing tight around the RING.
HIGH ABOVE OSGILIATH, the SINISTER PROFILE of the WITCH KING seated on a FELL BEAST as GOTHMOG stands, awaiting his orders.
REACTIONS: OF GONDORIAN SOLDIERS upon the MINAS TIRITH.
ANXIOUS SOLDIERS crowd around GANDALF.
DRESSED in OVER-SIZED ARMOUR.
kneels before DENETHOR.
DENETHOR proffers his RING which PIPPIN kisses.
DENETHOR gently raises PIPPIN'S head.
DENETHOR'S eyes meet.
DENETHOR addresses his meal.
FARAMIR as he finally realises the truth.
For a brief second, DENETHOR seems to hesitate, then.
FARAMIR bows low to DENETHOR, then turns to leave, stops, turns back.
DENETHOR continues with his meal.
FARAMIR exits.
AERIAL SHOT: HIGH above MINAS MORGUL, on the SMALL LEDGE next to the STAIRS, LIE the FIGURES of FRODO, SAM and GOLLUM.
SAM watches a sleeping GOLLUM suspiciously as he desperately tries to stay awake.
SLOWLY, INEVITABLY, SAM, falls asleep.
GOLLUM'S EYES SNAP OPEN.
he sits up and quietly crawls towards SAM'S KNAPSACK.
SAM breathes deeply now, heavily asleep.
GOLLUM grimaces in DISTASTE as he pulls out the LEMBAS BREAD.
Quietly he SPRINKLES CRUMBS over the sleeping SAM.
GOLLUM as he throws the remaining LEMBAS BREAD over the cliff.
SAM'S EYES flick open.
GOLLUM spins around, caught off guard.
Too exhausted to argue, SAM turns away.
SAM gently shakes FRODO'S shoulder.
SAM rummages through his KNAPSACK, looking for a bite to eat.
FRODO sits up slowly.
SAM stops rummaging.
SHOCK on his face.
SAM slowly turns to GOLLUM.
GOLLUM slaps his hand against SAM'S JACKET.
sending LEMBAS CRUMBS RAINING DOWN.
SAM is ENRAGED.
he throws himself at GOLLUM.
punching him.
FRODO pulls SAM off GOLLUM.
FRODO COLLAPSES on the GROUND! CLOSE ON: SAM'S horrified face.
SAM attempts to fuss around FRODO.
A terrible light comes into FRODO'S eyes as he STARES into the EARNEST eyes of SAM.
FRODO pushes SAM away, clutching at the RING beneath his shirt.
FRODO rises to his FEET, as if empowered with a frightening intense ENERGY.
SAM stares at FRODO with DISBELIEF.
TEARS WELL in SAM'S eyes.
TEARS spill down SAM'S cheeks.
as FRODO TURNS.
FRODO and GOLLUM leave.
SAM is in complete MISERY.
FARAMIR leading a COLUMN of KNIGHTS through the STREETS towards the CITY GATE.
PEOPLE are rushing forward, THROWING FLOWERS over the KNIGHTS.
GANDALF hurries alongside FARAMIR'S HORSE.
GANDALF reads the PAIN in FARAMIR'S eyes.
he calls after him, trying one more time to stop the YOUNG MAN.
HIGH ANGLE: FARAMIR leads the MOUNTED KNIGHTS through the GATES OF MINAS TIRITH and across the PELENNOR FIELDS towards the RUINS of OSGILIATH.
The people of MINAS TIRITH watch from the.
FARAMIR'S KNIGHTS FAN OUT to form one straight line of HORSEMEN.
GOTHMOG and his MEN watch as the KNIGHTS approach.
FAST PUSH IN to PIPPIN looking on as DENETHOR eats.
GOTHMOG rises amidst the RUINS of.
FARAMIR'S KNIGHTS -- yards away -- thundering towards camera.
PULL BACK to GOTHMOG.
he turns to CAMERA and RAISES HIS.
Behind GOTHMOG -- all over the RUINED CITY -- ORC ARCHERS rise to their feet.
BLACK ARROWS already strung on their BOWS! CLOSE ON: SLOW MOTION.
FARAMIR YELLING defiantly.
WIDE PROFILE: SLOW MOTION.
FARAMIR'S KNIGHTS ride straight into a BLACK WALL of FLYING ARROWS.
NORMAL SPEED.
FAST CUTS of SCREAMING ORCS.
THROUGHOUT the above sequence DENETHOR has continued to EAT.
PIPPIN finishes his bittersweet song.
he looks up at DENETHOR who continues as if he has not sent his son to his death.
PIPPIN turns away, his SORROW etched on his YOUNG.
GANDALF sits quietly in a COURTYARD, alone, defeated.
GREAT SIEGE TOWERS and CATAPULTS are ROLL along the REPARIED BRIDGE which spans both sides of OSGILIATH.
They head straight towards MINAS TIRITH.
ARAGORN, THEODEN, EOMER, MERRY, LEGOLAS and GIMLI GALLOP into a VAST CAMP beneath the COVER OF TREES.
TEEMING with MEN, HORSES and TENTS.
THEODEN acknowledges GRIMBOLD, a MARSHALL OF ROHAN, as he passes by a GROUP of SOLDIERS.
THEODEN smiles grimly as he rides on.
ARAGORN joins THEODEN on a BLUFF overlooking the ENCAMPMENT.
CAMERA CRANES to REVEAL: THOUSANDS of MEN and HORSES! Smoke from many small CAMP-FIRES has filled the VALLEY with a.
ARAGORN turns to THEODEN.
THEODEN realising what ARAGORN is saying -- no matter the numbers he must commit to war by the morning.
THEODEN nods.
The HORSES whinny loudly in the distance.
THEODEN looks up at the MOUNTAIN which looms behind them.
HORSES rearing in terror as ROHAN SOLDIERS try to quieten them.
LEGOLAS and GIMLI move through the CAMP.
LEGOLAS looking at a group of ROHAN SOLDIERS.
they sit quiet and hunched.
no-one speaking.
LEGOLAS looking toward EOMER who is unsaddling his HORSE.
GIMLI'S eyes travel to a ROW of ANCIENT STANDING STONES that mark the ENTRANCE to a ROAD leading away from the ENCAMPMENT and INTO the MOUNTAIN.
ARAGORN stands before the road as though transfixed.
before him a HORSE whinnies and pulls at his ropes nervously.
A GHOSTLY FIGURE seems to emerge from the gloom.
ARAGORN starts in fright as.
ARAGORN stares down at the LITTLE DWARF.
ARAGORN casts another look back at the ANCIENT STANDING STONES before following GIMLI.
All is quiet in the ENCAMPMENT.
EOWYN kneels before MERRY, adjusting his HELMET.
MERRY exhales -- excited and terrified in equal measure.
In his EXCITEMENT, he draws his SWORD.
EOWYN steps back, laughing.
As EOWYN and MERRY leave the tent, EOMER and GAMLING are sitting nearby, finishing a meal.
EOWYN ushers MERRY off.
MERRY hurries off.
EOMER watches the YOUNG HOBBIT leave.
GAMLING stifles a laugh.
EOWYN turns on both of them.
At the PLATEAU edge, a GUARD looks down the STEEP PRECIPICE as a HORSE and RIDER move along the RIDGE.
The HOODED FIGURE slowly RIDES up the NARROW ZIGZAG TRACK leading up to the PLATEAU.
ARAGORN tosses in his SLEEP, disturbed by images and voices.
As ARWEN lies dying, the EVENSTAR falls from her fingers.
At that moment, ARAGORN wakes, his SWORD quickly in his HAND.
A GUARD stands in the DOORWAY.
ARAGORN hurries towards THEODEN'S TENT.
THEODEN looks up as ARAGORN enters.
THEODEN bows slightly to the HOODED FIGURE and LEAVES, shooting ARAGORN a strange look as he goes.
The FIGURE stands and pulls back the HOOD to reveal ELROND.
ELROND'S face is ETCHED with PAIN.
ARAGORN receiving this news.
ASHEN-FACED.
ELROND'S eyes fall to the EVENSTAR which hangs around ARAGORN'S neck.
ARAGORN looks at ELROND in shock.
A FLEET of BLACK SAILS moving along a SILVER RIBBON of WATER.
ELROND hesitates a BEAT.
A SUDDEN WIND rushes through the TENT, lifting HANGINGS, scattering MAPS, knocking over GOBLETS.
As ARAGORN looks at ELROND, an IMAGE FLASHES in his MIND'S EYE.
The GHOSTLY FIGURE on the DIMHOLT ROAD.
ARAGORN looks at ELROND in shock.
ARAGORN'S eyes fall to a PLAIN BLACK SCABBARD, which ELROND draws from beneath his robes.
ELROND'S long white fingers draw the hilt of a SWORD from the scabbard to reveal.
a ELVEN SWORD glints in the firelight.
ARAGORN takes the sword staring at it in wonder.
ARAGORN draws the long blade from its sheath.
ELROND stares hard at ARAGORN.
A HEAVY SILENCE hangs in the room.
ARAGORN re-sheathes the SWORD.
As ARAGORN readies BREGO for leaving EOWYN approaches.
her temper barely held in check.
ARAGORN looks over his shoulder at her.
ARAGORN rounds on her.
ARAGORN looks at her sadly, not wanting to hurt her.
EOWYN steps back at though STRUCK.
she watches stricken as ARAGORN leaves.
ARAGORN leads his horse through the TENTS towards the DIMHOLT ROAD.
A LIGHT FLARES ahead of him.
A SHORT FIGURE steps out of the SHADOWS.
PIPE in hand.
ARAGORN looks at GIMLI -- GRATEFUL for his COURAGE but determined to go ALONE.
ARAGORN looks at LEGOLAS as he appears, leading his HORSE -- already SADDLED.
GIMLI steps closer to ARAGORN.
ARAGORN shakes his head, smiling his acceptance.
ARAGORN, LEGOLAS and GIMLI as they slowly ride towards the BACK of the PLATEAU.
Past the ANCIENT STANDING STONES that lead to the NARROW PASS.
THEODEN and GAMLING watch the RETREATING FIGURES of ARAGORN, LEGOLAS and GIMLI.
ROHAN SOLDIERS emerge from their tents, crestfallen to see ARAGORN leave.
ARAGORN, LEGOLAS and GIMLI disappear into the SHADOWS of the MOUNTAINS.
THEODEN as he moves forward.
THEODEN looks at EOWYN who stands as if turned to stone.
she is looking up at a LIGHTENING SKY.
The QUIET before the MEN depart for WAR.
EOWYN turns to the KING.
her FACE a BLANK.
THEODEN moves towards her, taking up her HAND.
EOWYN slowly lifts her head.
THEODEN lifts EOWYN faces to look into her EYES.
ARAGORN, LEGOLAS and GIMLI make their way up a GLOOMY CANYON, shadowed by BLACK FIR TREES.
The shadowed ridges of the DWIMORBERG MOUNTAIN rise BEFORE THEM.
It is a SPOOKY PLACE.
SILENCE surrounds them, there are no birds, no wind.
Only the OMINOUSLY MUFFLED THUD of their horses hooves on the dank FIRNEEDLES.
Before them, at the ROOT OF THE MOUNTAIN, a SHEER WALL of ROCK towers.
Within the walls, a creepy DARK DOOR gapes like a mouth of night.
SIGNS and FIGURES are carved above its WIDE ARCH.
AT THAT MOMENT: A CHILL WIND seems to rush out of the DOORWAY.
ARAGORN stares into the BLACKNESS, his HAIR BLOWING WILDLY.
The HORSES REAR and BUCK in terror, turning and The three HORSES DISAPPEAR.
ARAGORN turns resolutely towards the DOORWAY.
ARAGORN WALKING into the BLACKNESS.
LEGOLAS quickly follows.
GIMLI left ALONE.
He hesitates, struggling with his FEAR.
GIMLI plunges into the TUNNEL behind the OTHERS.
MUCH ACTIVITY.
the ENTIRE CAMP is on the MOVE.
fires are DOUSED, TENTS pulled down, HORSES saddled.
THEODEN strides through the CAMP, EOMER at his.
preparing a LITTLE PONY with a SADDLE and SUPPLIES.
He is wearing an OVERSIZED HELMET and ROHIRRIM CLOTHING.
he looks at once NERVOUS and EXCITED.
KING THEODEN breaks away from a COLUMN and rides up to MERRY.
KING THEODEN wheels his HORSE away.
MERRY is bitterly DISAPPOINTED.
He stands, head down -- a TINY DEJECTED FIGURE -- as the MIGHTY ROHIRRIM on their LARGE HORSES ride by.
SUDDENLY MERRY is plucked off the ground! A SOLDIER has snatched him by the collar.
MERRY twists around, looking up at the SOLDIER.
Beneath a HELMET and MAIL HOOD is EOWYN, disguised as a MAN!
MERRY'S face visible under the CAPE looking.
The VALLEY FLOOR as THOUSANDS of HORSEMEN ride out after their KING.
GREAT SIEGE TOWERS and CATAPULTS are ROLLING across the PELENNOR FIELDS.
Thousands of FLAMING TORCHES light the snarling, slathering MORGUL ORCS.
Marching in RAGGED.
Flowing torrents of ORCS stream past CAVE TROLLS, beating the DRUMS OF WAR.
MINAS TIRITH lies ahead -- only.
ARAGORN leads LEGOLAS and GIMLI into a WIDE CAVERN.
he WAVES HIS TORCH through the DARKNESS: ILLUMINATING a HUGE, CAVERN.
A ghastly CRACKING NOISE, like stone being sundered, cuts through the SILENCE.
A GHOSTLY FIGURE step from the ROCK WALLS! ANGLES ON: ARAGORN, LEGOLAS and GIMLI look on in HORROR, as a MUMMIFIED SPECTRE looms before them: EYELESS SOCKETS.
the KING OF THE DEAD! FOG SWIRLS around as the GHOST SNARLS at ARAGORN.
ARAGORN moves forward.
The FOG suddenly ROLLS BACK, forming a retreating wall of GREY VAPOUR.
slowly, RANK upon RANK of SPECTRAL WARRIORS are revealed! GHOULISH FACES.
The FOG reveals a DEAD ARMY of MANY THOUSANDS.
assembled around the CAVERN! ANGLE ON: ARAGORN stares GRIMLY at the KING OF THE DEAD.
ARAGORN holds his GAZE.
THE KING of the DEAD moves relentlessly towards ARAGORN.
ARAGORN, LEGOLAS and GIMLI are now surrounded by an ARMY of the DEAD.
LEGOLAS fires an ARROW at the KING OF THE DEAD.
it PASSES STRAIGHT THROUGH! ARAGORN keeps moving forward, his eyes locked on the SPECTRE.
The KING OF THE DEAD SNARLS and raises his DEADLY SWORD above ARAGORN' S HEAD.
With a TERRIFYING SHRIEK, THE KING of the DEAD SWEEPS his SWORD towards ARAGORN'S HEAD! SLOW MOTION: ARAGORN raises his SWORD in ANSWER.
a LOW WHISTLE as it SWEEPS through the AIR.
CLANG! The BLADE OF ANDURIL clashes with the SPECTRAL SWORD.
the SHARP RING of METAL reverberates through the CAVERNS! CLOSE ON: THE KING of the DEAD stares at ARAGORN in DISBELIEF.
ARAGORN grabs the SHOCKED GHOST by the NECK.
ARAGORN holds the SHARP BLADE against the GHOST'S THROAT.
ARAGORN releases the KING OF THE DEAD.
GHOSTLY FACES stare hollow-eyed at ARAGORN.
THOUSANDS of ORCS continue moving relentlessly forward.
Towards the WALLS of MINAS TIRITH.
A GUARD yells down from the PARAPET above the HUGE.
The HUGE GATE swings open, revealing.
FARAMIR'S badly wounded HORSE dragging FARAMIR behind!
Both the HORSE and FARAMIR are impaled with ORC ARROWS.
IORLAS and OTHER SOLDIERS arrive at the CITADEL with FARAMIR'S UNCONSCIOUS BODY on a STRETCHER.
PIPPIN follows them.
DENETHOR EMERGES from the TOWER HALL towards his son.
DENETHOR bends to the STRETCHER bearing his SON.
PIPPIN, devastated.
GOTHMOG turns to his LIEUTENANTS.
At his ORDERS, the GREAT CATAPULTS fire THWAT! THWAT! THWAT.
The ORC CATAPULTS do not fire rocks.
HORROR sweeps through the streets of MINAS TIRITH as the SEVERED HEADS of FARAMIR'S HORSEMEN land amongst the SOLDIERS.
DENETHOR looks down at FARAMIR'S UNCONSCIOUS BODY.
PIPPIN has run to FARAMIR and bends towards him.
DENETHOR slowly turning away.
DENETHOR has reached the edge of the COURTYARD.
he STARES in SHOCKED DISBELIEF at the VISTA spread out BELOW.
HIGH WIDE ANGLE: A FULL VIEW of the ORC ARMY from the TOP of MINAS TIRITH.
75,ORCS are spread out across the PELENNOR FIELDS like a sea of black ANTS.
TROLLS load the CATAPULTS with ROCKS.
BATTERING RAMS and SIEGE TOWERS are hauled on CHAINS.
Thousands of flickering TORCHES give the army the look of a moving city in the MURKY MORDOR TWILIGHT.
struggling to regain the power of speech.
A HUGE BOULDER smashes into the wall of MINAS.
BOULDERS HURTLE from CATAPULTS across the fields towards MINAS TIRITH.
A BOULDER smashes into a BALCONY full of CIVILIANS.
CONFUSION and PANIC spreads amongst the SOLDIERS.
GANDALF'S STAFF smashes into the back of DENETHOR'S HEAD! GANDALF grimly swings his staff again, CLUBBING DENETHOR to the GROUND! ANGLE ON: GANDALF spins around and ADDRESSES the SOLDIERS.
GANDALF GALLOPS down the WINDING LABYRINTHINE STREETS on SHADOWFAX against the flow of FLEEING SOLDIERS.
SHADOWFAX bounds up STAIRS onto the LEVEL ONE BATTLEMENTS.
GANDALF looks at the approaching ORC ARMY, now less than yards from the WALLS of the CITY.
MIGHTY WOODEN CATAPULTS positioned within the walls of MINAS TIRITH are fired.
THWAT! THWAT! THWAT! CATAPULTS send their great ROCKS high into the air, over the BATTLEMENTS! Dizzying AERIAL SHOTS of huge BOULDERS flying up close to CAMERA then falling away towards the ORCS! CRUNCH!! BOULDERS flatten ORCS.
THWAT!! more ROCKS.
THWAT!! another 100!! The ORC FRONT RANKS are in disarray.
As the GREAT BOULDERS land among them the ORC start to PANIC.
GANDALF walks the BATTLEMENTS as the huge BOULDERS rain onto the ORC ARMY below.
GOTHMOG glances up at a WHISTLING SOUND -- a huge BOULDER hurtles towards him.
He side-steps CALMLY out of the way spitting on the BOULDER in CONTEMPT.
SUDDENLY! 9 NAZGUL DIVE out of the DIM SKY, CLAD in BATTLE.
SOLDIERS throw themselves down as the NAZGUL zoom overhead, emitting their PIERCING SHRIEKS! GONDORIAN SOLDIERS run for SHELTER in PANIC, covering their ears.
MIGHTY WOODEN CATAPULTS positioned within the walls of MINAS TIRITH are fired! The NAZGUL circle LOW over the CITY, like VULTURES seeking doomed men's flesh.
SOLDIERS are plucked into the AIR by SHRIEKING NAZGUL and dropped to their DEATHS hundreds of FEET BELOW.
TOWERS and BUILDINGS are DESTROYED.
CHAOS as SOLDIERS, WOMEN and CHILDREN DODGE falling MASONRY.
GONDORIAN SOLDIERS send a rain of arrows at the approaching TOWERS and TROLLS.
TOO LATE! The TOWERS reach the walls, their DOORS crashing down, releasing ORCS directly onto the LOWER LEVELS.
As the ORC swarm from the TOWER, GANDALF realises PIPPIN has come down from the CITADEL.
PIPPIN looks on stunned, as a HUGE ORC leaps towards him.
GANDALF intercepts the BEAST, striking him with his STAFF.
GANDALF welds his STAFF, cutting through the attacking ORC with EASE.
BEHIND him, an ORC prepares to cut down GANDALF.
PIPPIN instinctively slashes his SWORD at him.
GANDALF turns on PIPPIN, smiling despite himself.
Out of BLACK SWIRLING BATTLE.
SMOKE crawls an IRON MONSTER! A MASSIVE WHEELED BATTERING RAM.
FEET HIGH and FEET LONG.
pushed by huge MOUNTAIN TROLLS.
a MASSIVE IRON HEAD, cast in the likeness of a SNARLING WOLF.this is GROND.
the BATTERING RAM FROM HELL! The Orc are chanting as the BEAST is wheeled closer and closer to the.
GANDALF blanching at the sight of this crawling.
GOLLUM leads FRODO up a LONG RAVINE between COLUMNS of TORN and WEATHERED ROCK.
AHEAD is a GREAT GREY WALL, a last huge mass of mountainstone and in the SHADOWS at the base of the TOWERING ROCK lies a TUNNEL.
FRODO reacts to the FOUL STENCH coming out of the BLACK HOLE.
SMEAGOL sensing his PLAN unravelling.
Everything depends on FRODO going inside the TUNNEL.
FRODO stares into the darkness.
GOLLUM, his sparse oily hair hanging like rank weed over his hooded eyes.
Drawing a DEEP BREATH, FRODO follows GOLLUM into the TUNNEL.
They continue on, deep into the DARK TUNNEL.
FRODO is feeling his way in the dark, following the SOUND of GOLLUM'S scampering.
FRODO follows the sound of GOLLUM's voice.
He is VERY TIRED.
FRODO cannot see GOLLUM in the MURKY TUNNEL.
FRODO slips as he tries to follow the voice.
He puts his HAND to the WALL to STEADY HIMSELF but quickly YANKS it away.
STRANDS of a WHITE THREAD stuck to his HAND.
GOLLUM is nowhere to be seen.
FRODO breathing hard.
passing all manner of creatures, trussed up in evil WEB-LIKE material.
There is a CREAKING as some great JOINTED THING moves with slow purpose in the DARK.
FRODO begins to run in BLIND PANIC.
SAM stumbles blindly down the ANCIENT STAIRS, reckless and uncaring, his face pale and devastated.
SAM'S FOOT slips.
SUDDENLY, as if the ground has given way beneath him, SAM is slipping and sliding dangerously OUT OF CONTROL.
SAM thudding into a LARGE ROCK, which saves him from tumbling headlong over the PRECIPICE.
Something catches SAM'S EYE.
he stares, barely breathing.
A package of LEMBAS BREAD.
SAM looking BACK UP the LONG STEEP STAIR.
FRODO is running BLINDLY.
He falls, trapped in the sticky substance which CLINGS to him.
As he lays on the ground, unable to move, a VOICE comes to him as if from a distant memory.
FRODO fumbles in his JACKET, FEAR growing in him he pulls out the GLASS PHIAL -- his GIFT from GALADRIEL -- he holds it aloft.
GOLLUM on the other side of the WEB.
FRODO as he SLASHES WILDLY with STING.
The SHINING BLADE of STING as it hacks through the FIBROUS STRANDS.
They whip and snap back into FRODO'S FACE as he cuts himself free.
Back up the TUNNEL -- lit by the LIGHT OF GALADRIEL -- SHELOB'S HEAVING SHADOW approaches.
DISBELIEF turns to FEAR as SHELOB gets closer and closer, GOLLUM quickly turns and BOLTS.
FRODO hacks at the WEB and with a last desperate LUNGE, frees himself.
STING is caught in the WEB.
FRODO leaves the SWORD and THROWS HIMSELF through a narrow CREVICE.
FRODO stumbles out of SHELOB'S LAIR.
Tumbling onto COLD ROCK.
FRODO covered in COBWEBS, wild-eyed and drenched in SWEAT.
He looks up as GOLLUM lunges at him.
GOLLUM and FRODO fight.
Rolling on the GROUND towards the EDGE of a PRECIPICE.
FRODO pins GOLLUM on the ground, hands around his throat.
FRODO'S fingers squeeze tighter around GOLLUM'S.
FRODO has a sudden moment of SELF REALISATION and releases GOLLUM, horrified at his VIOLENCE.
GOLLUM cowering back.
COUGHING and SPLUTTERING.
FRODO looking at SMEAGOL, in SHOCK, he gets to his.
SMEAGOL stares at FRODO in DISBELIEF.
in a FURY he LUNGES at FRODO who falls backwards, dangerously close to the edge of the PRECIPICE -- GOLLUM tumbles over FRODO's BODY and FALLS to the bottom of the RAVINE.
FRODO, overcome with EXHAUSTION, stumbles down the steep stairs of CIRITH UNGOL.
He is full of REMORSE at his TREATMENT of SAM.
FRODO falls to his knees.
FRODO lands on SOFT GREEN GRASS.
SUN DRENCHED IMAGES: Of trees.
of LOTHLORIEN HAZY IMAGE: GALADRIEL walking towards him, BARE-FOOT on the.
GALADRIEL leans down towards FRODO, OFFERING her hand.
for a beat, FRODO stares at her.
torn, not wanting to go on, wanting to lie down.
But he knows what he must do.
FRODO as he is LIFTED to HIS FEET.
FRODO -- once again in the dark, rank, tunnels of the PASS of CIRITH UNGOL.
He goes on.
FLAMING MISSILES rain down on the CITY.
GROND thuds against the MINAS TIRITH GATE sending a VIBRATION running through the city!
GANDALF, on SHADOWFAX, leads SEVERAL HUNDRED GONDORIAN FOOT SOLDIERS down through the streets.
PIPPIN watches as FARAMIR'S UNCONSCIOUS BODY is carried on the STRETCHER by DENETHOR'S SERVANTS lead by DENETHOR.
it has the atmosphere of a FUNERAL.
An IRON DOOR creaks OPEN.
FARAMIR'S PROCESSION enters a WIDE VAULTED CHAMBER.
The LANTERN LIGHT throws great SHADOWS upon the SHROUDED WALLS of a wide VAULTED CHAMBER.
ROW upon ROW of MARBLE TOMBS are visible in the DIM LIGHT.
Upon each TOMB lies a SLEEPING FORM, carved in STONE, hands folded.
DENETHOR turns to his SERVANTS.
BOOOMM! The GATE SPLINTERS under GROND'S mighty weight.
Behind the GATES the GONDORIAN FOOT SOLDIERS are FEARFUL.
GANDALF rallies the line of BOWMEN as they wait in front of the GREAT DOORS.
their COURAGE wavering with each CRASHING.
SUDDENLY the FEARSOME HEAD protrudes into the MINAS TIRITH.
Within MOMENTS the GATE is smashed and GIANT CAVE TROLLS enter into the FIRST CIRCLE of MINAS TIRITH, under the archway that no enemy had ever passed.
ROWS of ARCHERS fire off a VOLLEY of ARROWS but the TROLLS continue to SMASH the FOOT SOLDIERS with their giant CLUBS.
ORCS swarm through the OPENING and the PITCHED, HAND-To-HAND BATTLE spills into FLAMES and BLACKENED, SMOULDERING BUILDINGS.
With a ROAR, GANDALF leads a COUNTER ATTACK on SHADOWFAX, followed by SEVERAL HUNDRED GONDORIAN FOOT.
THOUSANDS OF ORCS swarm in through the CITY GATES.
the FIRST LEVEL is breached.
FRODO STAGGERS through the PASS OF CIRITH UNGOL.
the weight of the RING, dragging at his neck.
He MOVES FORWARD, fueled by a GRIM RESOLVE.
FRODO starts climbing a STONE STAIRCASE that climbs through a NARROW PASS.
TALL PEAKS rise on either side, like pillars holding up a sagging sky.
AHEAD is the SUMMIT of CIRITH UNGOL.
and an ORC WATCH TOWER! A FAINT LIGHT glows from within the STONE TOWER.
the PATH over the SUMMIT is in FULL VIEW of the ORCS.
FRODO stays CLOSE to the ROCK WALL, masked by SHADOWS.
Behind FRODO, SHELOB APPEARS! With hideous STEALTH, she follows FRODO.
FRODO slowly climbing the STONE STAIRS.
his GAZE and CONCENTRATION on the ORC TOWER.
Behind him, SHELOB lurches into a HORRIBLE SCUTTLE down the SHEER ROCK FACE.
FRODO suddenly senses the LURKING MALICE.
he SPINS AROUND: Before he can react, SHELOB VICIOUSLY STABS FRODO in the NECK with her monstrous abdominal STINGER! FRODO instantly goes LIMP.
SHELOB'S LEGS catch him as he falls.
she quickly starts WEAVING COBWEBS around him.
With great dexterity, she tumbles the LITTLE HOBBIT over and over in her LEGS, binding him in WEB from HEAD to TOE! SUDDENLY!.
The RAZOR SHARP EDGE of a SWORD comes into shot.
SAMWISE GAMGEE stands before the GIANT SPIDER -- STING clutched in one hand, the SHINING PHIAL in the other.
SHELOB HISSES at SAM.
DROPPING FRODO.
he ROLLS down the STAIRS in his WEB COCOON.
SAM moves forward, a fell light in his normally friendly eyes.
SAM SWINGS the small sword.
SLASHING upward! ANGLE ON: SHELOB HISSES and REARS above SAM, her STINGER dribbling with VENOM! SAM ducks inside the arch of her LEGS and STABS STING into one of her EYE CLUSTERS! CLOSE ON: SHELOB SCREAMS, her MANDIBLES thrashing wildly, GREEN OOZE trickling from her WOUNDED EYE.
With HIND LEGS, SHELOB picks SAM off the ground and TOSSES him BACKWARDS! SAM lands heavily.
and SHELOB POUNCES! ANGLE ON: SHELOB heaves the great bag of her BELLY high above SAM'S HEAD.
As she splays her legs to drive her huge bulk down on him, SAM lifts the ELVEN BLADE above his head, holding it with TWO HANDS.
STING slides into SHELOB'S SOFT UNDERBELLY! A SHUDDER runs through her! HEAVING up again, she wrenches herself away from the PAIN.
her LIMBS writhing beneath her.
JERKING and QUIVERING, SHELOB crawls to her HOLE, leaving a trail of GREEN-YELLOW SLIME.
She SQUEEZES down the HOLE and DISAPPEARS.
the SOUND of her BUBBLING MISERY fades.
SAM RIPS COBWEBS away from FRODO'S HEAD.
his FACE is DEATHLY PALE.
FRODO'S head LOLLS LIFELESSLY in SAM'S ARMS. 
SAM lays his FACE on FRODO'S CHEST.
WEEPING SOFTLY.
SAM looks up.
SAM looks up at the ORC TOWER and then at STING which is glowing BLUE! ORCS approach -- SAM must make a decision.
A SMALL PARTY of ORCS and URUK-HAI heading down the STAIRS from the WATCH TOWER.SHAGRAT leads the URUK- HAI, and GORBAG leads the ORCS.
GORBAG spies FRODO'S BODY.
GORBAG peer curiously at FRODO as he leans down and pokes at FRODO'S LIFELESS BODY.
SAM, hidden in a rock crevice, as SHOCK sweeps across his FACE.
The ORCS GRUNT as they lift FRODO.
and CARRY him back towards the WATCH TOWER.
ORC LAUGHTER.
FRODO is carried up the steep STAIRS.
FROM the SHADOWS PIPPIN watches, aghast, as FARAMIR is lain on a FUNERAL PYRE.
DENETHOR kisses FARAMIR'S sweating, FEVERED brow.
BUNDLES of DRIED FIREWOOD are being stacked around.
PIPPIN, rushes forward, desperately PULLING the.
DENETHOR grabs PIPPIN by the collar! He roughly carries him towards the door.
DENETHOR throws PIPPIN outside.
DENETHOR SLAMS the DOOR SHUT.
PIPPIN RACES down the STEEP STREETS.
passing SOLDIERS running back from the BURNING CITY.
GREAT BALLS of FIRE are hurtling through the air.
The city is in CHAOS.
AMIDST the FLEEING SOLDIERS.
PIPPIN desperately pushes against the TIDE of SOLDIERS retreating from the FIGHTING.
GOTHMOG turns to his SECOND LIEUTENANT.
As ORC run through the STREETS, MEN, WOMEN, and CHILDREN flee.
The PITCHED BATTLE continues.
SUDDENLY! in the midst of the BATTLE, GANDALF turns.
ROHAN HAS COME.
GOTHMOG turns at the sound of the DISTANT HORNS.
HORSEMEN, lead by THEODEN and EOMER, step up to the SKYLINE.
MINAS TIRITH lies less than a MILE AWAY, down a gentle slope.
Over 50,ORCS are swarming around the base of the city.
thick BLACK SMOKE belches from within it.
MERRY BLANCHES with FEAR.
EOWYN puts a comforting hand on his shoulder.
On the BATTLE FIELD GOTHMOG walks among his troops.
The ORCS PREPARE for BATTLE.
THEODEN gallops in front of his ARMY, ISSUING URGENT ORDERS to his CAPTAINS.
THEODEN rides to the front of his ARMY.
He rises in his stirrups, TALL and PROUD, yelling in a clear, LOUD.
A RAY of SUNLIGHT escapes through the BLACK CLOUDS, bathing the ROHIRRIM in GOLDEN LIGHT.
WEAPONS and ARMOUR GLEAMS. 
as HORSEMEN hold their SPEARS aloft! Below, on PELENNOR FIELD, the ORC kneel and raise their LANCES in READINESS.
EOWYN, her arm around MERRY before her.
MERRY looks on in SHOCK.
As THEODEN rides past the ranks of SOLDIERS he runs his LANCE along their SPEARS.
THEODEN faces his ENEMY.
MERRY is swept up in the emotion.
he whips out his LITTLE SWORD.
ALL the HORNS of the ROHIRRIM burst BLAST upon BLAST! ANGLE ON: The ROHIRRIM move off, a great WALL of HORSES and SPEAR POINTS, building up to a GALLOP like a rising tide, as they CHARGE TOWARDS THE 50,ORCS! ANGLE ON: MERRY, wind blowing his hair, EOWYN'S ARM around his chest.
as he YELLS at the top of his lungs ! ANGLE ON: GOTHMOG marshalling his troops.
The first VOLLEY of ARROWS hit the ROHAN SOLDIERS.
The charge continues.
GANDALF wheels around on SHADOWFAX.
GANDALF pulls PIPPIN onto SHADOWFAX.
The ROHAN charge is decimating the ENEMY.
DENETHOR standing on the table astride FARAMIR, pouring OIL over his OWN HEAD.
It runs through his hair and down his face, quickly soaking his ROBES.
FARAMIR, his eyes flicker open.
As he tries to FOCUS through his delirium, OIL splashes onto his CHEST and.
BUNDLES of OIL-SOAKED wood are STACKED all around them.
SERVANTS are holding FLAMING TORCHES, awaiting their orders.
DENETHOR nods to them: The SERVANTS approach the PYRE, TORCHES held firmly.
AT THAT MOMENT: GANDALF and PIPPIN burst into the HALLOWS, astride SHADOWFAX.
The fearful SERVANTS back away from the PYRE.
With a ROAR, DENETHOR SNATCHES a FLAMING TORCH.
and HURLS it at the PYRE! WHOOSH! The PYRE IGNITES! ANGLE ON: GANDALF GALLOPS toward the PYRE, knocking DENETHOR to his FEET.
PIPPIN LEAPS from SHADOWFAX onto the BURNING.
With a desperate strength, PIPPIN pushes FARAMIR off the BURNING PYRE.
they tumble down the BUNDLES of WOOD, onto the FLOOR! PIPPIN douses FLAMES on FARAMIR'S clothing.
DENETHOR SCREAMS with RAGE.
DENETHOR leaps ACROSS THE PYRE, RIPPING and TUGGING at PIPPIN! FIRE quickly spreads up DENETHOR'S OIL-SOAKED BACK as he hauls PIPPIN off FARAMIR! ANGLE ON: SHADOWFAX rears up and STRIKES at DENETHOR who falls back onto the PYRE.
he looks into his SON'S eyes.
for a BRIEF MOMENT SANITY returns.
FLAMES begin to ENGULF DENETHOR.
SUDDENLY! DENETHOR lurches off the PYRE! Now a SCREAMING, unguided BALL OF FLAME, he runs across the CHAMBER, disappearing out of the door.
DENETHOR runs across the WHITE COURT atop MINAS TIRITH.
and PLUMMETS straight over the FOOT SHEER DROP into the FLAMING CITY below.
DENETHOR'S DEATH PLUNGE to the ROHIRRIM gaining the upper hand -- VAST NUMBERS of ORCS are SLAIN, or are FLEEING.
THEODEN STANDS PROUD in his saddle, YELLING to his ROHIRRIM.
his look of JOY turns to HORROR! ANGLE ON: Across the VAST SEA of BATTLE come.
MASSIVE elephant-like CREATURES, each carrying a WAR-TOWER, packed with HARADRIM ARCHERS.
THEODEN on his HORSE, CIRCLING AMONGST THEM.
GANDALF looks at the SMALL HOBBIT a beat.
PIPPIN looks up at GANDALF, questioningly.
GANDALF looks down to see PIPPIN looking up at him with fear in his eyes.
GANDALF breaks off, lost in reverie.
PIPPIN stares up at the OLD WIZARD'S FACE, softened, quiet and full of peace.
GANDALF and PIPPIN'S faces turn as the WOODEN DOORS shudder under another BLOW.
The battlefield is in CHAOS as MUMAKIL decimate the VALIANT ROHIRRIM.
THEODEN tries to rally his men amid the SEA of CRYING MEN and NEIGHING HORSES.
SUDDENLY the WITCH-KING SWOOPS down on his NAZGUL scooping up THEODEN and his HORSE.
they CARTWHEEL into the AIR and land in a heap.
the HORSE is DEAD.
THEODEN lies DYING beneath it.
The WITCH-KING swooping down on his FELL-BEAST! The FELL-BEAST lands on THEODEN'S DEAD HORSE.
The FELL-BEAST opens it's WICKED JAWS.! ANGLE ON: A ROHAN SOLDIER stands before the BEAST.
The WITCH-KING laughs.
The FELL-BEAST lifts EOWYN from her feet.
SUDDENLY! With a mighty SWORD BLOW, the FELL-BEAST'S HEAD is SEVERED! The huge CREATURE crumples to the ground, VAST WINGS out-stretched, sending the WITCH-KING sprawling! ANGLE ON: The WITCH-KING rises out of the wreckage.
EOWYN stands before him, the FELL-BEAST'S BLOOD dripping from her SWORD! With a shrill SHRIEK of HATRED, he knocks EOWYN backwards with his MACE! STUNNED, EOWYN tries to stand and is hit once again with another CRIPPLING BLOW.
EOWYN tries to block the BLOW but her SHIELD shatters into MANY PIECES! The WITCH-KING towers over EOWYN.
an ORC COMMANDER hurrying on to the ANDUIN RIVER DOCKS, close to the CITY.
LARGE BLACK SHADOWS slide across the DOCKS, as SAILING SHIPS approach O.S.
A sinister BLACK SAILED SHIP GLIDES into the DOCKS.
9 OTHER CORSAIR SHIPS follow behind.
The ORC COMMANDER.
ARAGORN leaping from the LEADING SHIP and charging across the DOCKS, ROARING at the top of his LUNGS! He is followed by LEGOLAS and GIMLI.
Surprised ORC REACTION to the THREE charging towards THOUSANDS of ORCS.
The ARMY OF THE DEAD suddenly LEAP straight out of the SIDES of the SHIPS! They charge ACROSS the SURFACE OF THE WATER with FRIGHTENING SPEED, overtaking ARAGORN! The ORCS SCREAM at the SIGHT of SPECTRAL WARRIORS! ANGLE ON: The SPECTRAL WARRIORS SWARM into the flank of the ORC ARMY! With a raging blood-lust, the UNDEAD climb over the top of each other to try and reach the enemy, creating a kind of ROLLING MOUNTAIN of GHOULS that sweep all before them away! The ORCS have no defence as their WEAPONS CANNOT MAKE CONTACT with the GHOSTS.
MERRY on the ground.
He looks around to see THE WITCH-KING standing over EOWYN, pulling her to her FEET.
MERRY driving his SWORD into the back of the WITCHKING'S KNEE! MERRY'S SWORD bursts into FLAME and his ARM is shot with PAIN.
EOWYN struggles to her feet.
pulling off her HELMET.
her LONG HAIR tumbling onto her shoulders.
With her last strength, EOWYN thrusts her SWORD into the WITCH-KING'S FACE! EOWYN'S SWORD SHATTERS into MANY SHARDS! The WITCH-KING topples back DEAD, a BLACK OOZE leaking from his ROBES and ARMOUR! A shuddering CRY, fading into a SHRILL WAIL passes with the WIND.
ARAGORN and LEGOLAS battle the ORC -- LEGOLAS JUMPS onto the BACK of a GIANT MUMAKIL bringing it down.
he lands on his feet in front of GIMLI.
The MUMAKIL react with terror as SPECTRAL WARRIORS climb up their SIDES, routing the HARADRIM from their WAR-TOWERS! ORCS flee in their THOUSANDS.
The ARMY OF THE DEAD swarming over the CITY, routing the ORCS!
EOWYN crawls to where THEODEN lays, mortally wounded.
THEODEN looks up at EOWYN.
his breathing shallow.
his vision clouded.
EOWYN smiles down at him as she GENTLY STROKES his FACE.
THEODEN is DYING.
The ARMY OF THE DEAD slowly DISSOLVE INTO DUST, and are immediately swept away by the four winds.
ARAGORN turns to GANDALF who bows his head in HOMAGE.
PIPPIN, in his GONDORIAN armour, looks around at the devastation.
his eyes full of SADNESS.
they suddenly fix on something.
PIPPIN running through the RUIN of the BATTLE.
towards a SMALL FIGURE slumped on the ground.
MERRY stares unseeing at PIPPIN.
HORROR and SHOCK erasing all other memories from MERRY'S mind.
tears fall down PIPPIN'S FACE as he looks on his FRIEND.
PIPPIN covers MERRY with a blanket.
CAMERA RISES.
towards the dark ORC TOWER of CIRITH UNGOL.
A light glows from the TOPMOST WINDOW.
CAMERA reaches the TOWER, dissolving through the wall into.
A small cold ROOM.
FRODO BAGGINS is UNCONSCIOUS on the floor.
His eyes suddenly flicker and he WAKES UP.
TILT UP.
to reveal the ORC and URUK-HAI, GORBAG and SHAGRAT, arguing over FRODO'S BELONGINGS and CLOTHES! GORBAG is snatching for the MITHRIL VEST.
FRODO as he realizes that he has been STRIPPED down to his UNDERWEAR.
He clutches at his throat.
The RING HAS GONE.
GORBAG grabs for the MITHRIL VEST.
GORBAG draws his SWORD, but SHAGRAT KICKS him BACKWARDS with his foot! GORBAG FALLS THROUGH a TRAP DOOR leading to the floor below.
GORBAG lands in the GUARD ROOM with a CRASH, creating SUDDEN ALARM amongst the ORCS and URUK-HAI stationed there.
SHAGRAT leans through the TRAP DOOR.
SEVERAL URUK-HAI converge on GORBAG -- he LASHES OUT, slashing one across the throat with his SWORD!
The DEAD URUK-HAI topples backwards over the PARAPET landing on top of URUK-HAI and ORCS in the courtyard below.
Within moments, a brutal CIVIL WAR breaks out between the TWO COMPANIES stationed in CIRITH UNGOL.
SAM hurries towards the gate, fearful for FRODO.
SAM is confronted with the sight of over SLAUGHTERED ORC and URUK-HAI, strewn over the COURTYARD! ANGLE ON: SAM pounds UP THE STAIRCASE.
he suddenly PAUSES.
SEVERAL URUK-HAI are running DOWN TOWARDS HIM! He grips STING and continues CHARGING UP -- SCREAMING at the top of his lungs! ANGLE ON: The FOUR URUKS.
they see a HUGE DISTORTED SHADOW on the wall in front of them! They turn around and flee in terror back to the top of the stairs! SAM appears -- and before the URUK-HAI can fully regain their wits -- he slays THREE.
SAM runs into the TOWER.
FRODO struggling against his bonds, as GORBAG climbs back into the room.
GORBAG grabs FRODO'S hair and pulls his head back, exposing his neck.
He pulls out his SWORD, ready to cut FRODO'S throat.
SUDDENLY! GORBAG GASPS as STING is rammed into his back by.
GORBAG falls dead.
FRODO humbled by SAM'S unswerving loyalty.
SAM quickly cuts FRODO free.
SAM pulls the RING from his pocket.
FRODO looks at SAM amazed.
his eyes drop to the.
SAM hesitates.
TENSION instantly builds between them.
SAM seems strangely reluctant.
ON THE SOUNDTRACK to HUM of the RING builds.
SAM drops the RING into FRODO'S palm.
FRODO sags in RELIEF.
He puts the RING back around his neck.
FRODO looks at SAM, pain in his eyes.
SAM looks down at FRODO.
his plain HOBBIT face full of compassion.
SAM'S resolve hardens, a new strength takes hold.
FRODO and SAM are now dressed in FOUL-LOOKING ORC gear.
FRODO and SAM turn east and walk over the SUMMIT of CIRITH UNGOL into MORDOR.
FRODO and SAM they STOP DEAD.
MOUNT DOOM.
MILES AWAY -- across the barren GORGOROTH PLATEAU -- the mountain is erupting streams of ASH and LAVA high into the air, lighting the low cloud blanket of MORDOR with a flickering ORANGE WASH.
With immense trepidation, FRODO and SAM head down the steep path into the dark kingdom.
TWO TINY FIGURES in a bleak, foreboding landscape.
Before them lies the PLAIN of GORGOROTH.
Their eyes are drawn to the OMINOUS SILHOUETTE of MOUNT DOOM.
FRODO's eyes travel down towards the HUNDREDS of FIRES which glow on the PLAINS beneath them thousands upon thousands of ORCS are encamped there.
THEIR eyes are drawn to a DARK LOOMING SHAPE.
A RED LIGHT seems to sweep across the PLAIN.
The GREAT EYE OF SAURON! SAM cannot see what FRODO sees.
GENTLY, he urges FRODO on.
GANDALF stands in the TOWER HALL.
He turns and crosses the HALL to reveal the presence of GIMLI, LEGOLAS, EOMER and ARAGORN.
ARAGORN, his back to GANDALF.
GANDALF -- still troubled, still worried.
GIMLI sits insolently on the SEAT of the STEWARD.
GANDALF looks across at the DWARF.
His face ashen.
ARAGORN turns around suddenly.
GANDALF looks up sharply at ARAGORN.
At this, GIMLI CHOKES on his pipe.
EOMER steps forward.
ARAGORN wearing a BREAST PLATE emblazoned with the.
He rides at the head of a COLUMN of FOOT SOLDIERS from ROHAN and GONDOR.
leading them from the RUINS of OSGILIATH.
GANDALF, LEGOLAS, GIMLI, EOMER, MERRY and PIPPIN ride directly behind him.
GREAT ARMIES of ORC and URUK-HAI stream across the PLAINS from MORDOR.
The VOLCANIC WASTELAND of the GORGOROTH FOOTHILLS.
FRODO and SAM, still disguised in the ORC ARMOUR, slide down scree bank and land on the road below.
their attention is fixed on the PLAIN below.
thousands of ORCS can be seen marching away from MT.
DOOM.
FRODO and SAM moving across a HELLISH dry landscape of twisted volcanic rock and STEAMING FISSURES.
MILES AWAY, MOUNT DOOM rises out of the PLAIN.
its feet founded in ashen ruin, its huge cone rising to a great height, where its reeking head is swathed in cloud.
ARAGORN'S FORCE of approaches the great BLACK GATES OF MORDOR.
He positions his troops about half a mile from the.
FRODO slumped against a ROCK.
He tries to DRINK from his WATER BOTTLE but finds it EMPTY.
FRODO gratefully takes a SMALL SIP from SAM'S BOTTLE.
A moment of EYE CONTACT between FRODO and SAM as they acknowledge what lies ahead.
SAM offers FRODO his hand and PULLS HIM UP.
At the BLACK GATES, ARAGORN musters his MEN.
FRODO and SAM staggering across the TORTURED LANDSCAPE.
they are no longer WEARING the ORC ARMOUR.
FRODO is walking half-bowed, often stumbling.
as if his eyes not longer see the way before his feet.
His right HAND is pressed against his CHEST supporting a HEAVY WEIGHT.
His left HAND often rises, as if to ward off some invisible blow.
SAM watches him, CONCERN etched across his FACE.
FRODO as a malevolent VOICE in his head calls to him.
SAM looking behind him in time to see.
A RAY of RED LIGHT stabs through the GLOOM and begins to sweep over the BARREN LANDSCAPE.
SAM throws himself to the ground.
FRODO turns to the light, unable to stop himself.
FRODO crumpling to the ground as the RED LIGHT hits him like a SEARCHLIGHT.
All is QUIET.
GANDALF watchful.
He nods at ARAGORN.
ARAGORN, GANDALF, LEGOLAS, GIMLI, EOMER, MERRY and PIPPIN galloping towards the BLACK GATES.
They pull up less than yards from the TOWERING GATES.
FRODO is slumped on the GROUND, unable to MOVE.
ARAGORN moves his HORSE forward.
From behind the HUGE GATES, the terrifying CHANTING and the CLANGING of the ARMOUR of THOUSANDS.
With the SOUND of TORTURED METAL, the MASSIVE GATES begin to open.
LEGOLAS, MERRY and EOMER look on in trepidation.
With the EYE OF SAURON sweeping the PLAINS around them, SAM gets to his feet.
The BLACK GATES of MORDOR SWING OPEN! SAURON'S ARMY of 300,ARAGORN, GANDALF, LEGOLAS, GIMLI, EOMER, MERRY and PIPPIN GALLOP back towards their SMALL ARMY as the ORC MASSES slowly MARCH toward them.
Behind them, the EYE OF SAURON is directed toward THEM.
FRODO'S eyes open with a START.
SAM crawls toward FRODO.
FRODO and SAM stagger to their feet and move off.
The MASSIVE ORC ARMY marching towards ARAGORN'S.
ARAGORN'S MEN starting to WAVER as the ORCS ENCIRCLE THEM.
SOME MEN are backing away losing their nerve.
ARAGORN GALLOPS in front of his ARMY.
he seems to fix each and everyone of his MEN with his eyes.
ARAGORN holds ANDURIL ALOFT.
FRODO and SAM are CLIMBING the face of MOUNT DOOM.
The LANDSCAPE is VIOLENT.
RED HEAT hisses out of FISSURES, the ROCK is JAGGED.
RAZOR SHARP.
ASH blankets the LAND.
RED LIGHTNING FORKS across the SKY with a DEAFENING CRACK! CLOSE ON: FRODO and SAM'S FEET dragging across the ASH.
Their PARCHED LIPS.
SWEATING, DUSTY FACES.
FRODO TRIPS.
falls FACE-FIRST into the DUST.
SAM drops beside him.
Of ARAGORN'S ARMY, totally SURROUNDED by 300,ORCS poised for the order to ATTACK!
FRODO slowly lifts his head and looks up.
Looking .straight up the STEEP SLOPES of MOUNT DOOM, a huge mass of ash and slag and burned stone!
FRODO starts to CRAWL on his HANDS and KNEES and hauls himself a FEW PITIFUL FEET before SLUMPING in the ASH.
GIMLI as he surveys the ARMY of MORDOR.
GIMLI looks up into the EYES of LEGOLAS, with whom he has shared so much.
The GRUFF DWARF smiles quietly.
SAM crawls to FRODO who lies SLUMPED against the rock-face.
he turns him over, holding him in his ARMS. 
FRODO shuts his eyes, his breath coming in GASPS.
SAM looks at FRODO with GRIM DETERMINATION.
With that, SAM lifts FRODO on to his shoulders and starts to CLIMB MOUNT DOOM! His plain hobbit-face grows stern, almost grim, as the will hardens in him.
TWO TINY HOBBITS on the ENDLESS shale SLOPES of the.
ARAGORN and COMPANY watch as they are surrounded by a tide of ORCS.
ARAGORN raises ANDURIL in the BROAD SWEEP as he walks forward.
he turns to FACE the OTHERS.
QUIET RESOLVE written on ARAGORN's face as he looks into the EYES of the remaining members of the FELLOWSHIP.
ARAGORN turning, SWORD-raised, he CHARGES FORWARD! There is a moment of SILENCE.
no-one else moves.
SUDDENLY a SHOUT goes up! ANGLE ON: PIPPIN and MERRY charging forward.
The rest of the MEN following.
ARAGORN crashing head on into a line of ORCS.
The blade of ANDURIL flashing as ARAGORN HACKS at.
Like a small grey insect, SAM creeps up the slope with FRODO on his back foot by foot.
The mantling CLOUD swirls, revealing the cruel pinnacles and iron crown of BARAD-DUR, the Dark Tower, in the distance.
SAM staggering under FRODO'S weight.
STRONG ash- laden WINDS are buffeting him as he slowly CLIMBS MOUNT DOOM.
The PLAIN of GORGOROTH lies FEET BELOW, wrapped in fume and shadow.
A TREMOR ripples through the GROUND.
a RED FLAME explodes into the SKY.
SAM looks up -- fearful the MOUNTAIN could explode at any moment! SAM POV: Through the THICK, FUME-LADEN AIR a set of STAIRS can be made out.
SAM can't believe it -- relief and joy flood through him.
SMACK! OUT OF NOWHERE the figure of SMEAGOL crashes into them sending SAM and FRODO sprawling.
SMEAGOL pounces on FRODO.
his fingers wrapping around his throat, snapping FRODO'S neck from side to side! ANGLE ON: FRODO as he struggles to unlock the BONY, WHITE FINGERS around his neck but SMEAGOL'S grip is too strong.
SMEAGOL'S fingers tightening around FRODO'S neck -- squeezing the life out of him.
WHACK! A ROCK connects with the SIDE of SMEAGOL'S head.
SAM jumps on a STUNNED SMEAGOL.
The BATTLE between MEN and ORCS rages on.
From MORDOR, high OVERHEAD, the NAZGUL fly out into the FRAY.
All the old HATRED between SAM and SMEAGOL boils over as they FIGHT.
SAM falls back.
SMEAGOL BITING at his.
SAM pushes SMEAGOL away with his feet, rolls to his KNEES, as SMEAGOL charges at him.
SAM slashes out with STING! He cuts SMEAGOL across the stomach! SMEAGOL staggers back, SCREAMING with PAIN.
SAM looks around desperately for FRODO.
The EAGLES engage the NAZGUL.
SAM is GASPING, his lungs EXPLODING as he RACES up the SLOPES of MOUNT DOOM searching for FRODO.
SAM arriving at the STONE DOORWAY of SAMMATH NAUR leading into the MOUNTAIN! SAM staggers into it.
SAM flinches against the FIERCE HEAT blasting down the TUNNEL.
SAM lurches forward towards an ORANGE GLOW deep in the HEART of the MOUNTAIN.
The HEAT is almost UNBEARABLE.
SAM sees FRODO in the.
FRODO is standing on the EDGE of the CRACK OF DOOM.
a deep LAVA FILLED CHASM, in the very heart of ancient SAURON'S FORGES, the greatest in Middle-earth.
The RAGING ORANGE GLARE from the CHASM turns FRODO into a BLACK SILHOUETTE.
standing TENSE and STILL.
FRODO holds the RING in his HAND.
he RAISES IT, holding it over the BUBBLING LAVA far below.
FRODO a STRANGE EXPRESSION on his face.
The HUM of the RING grows louder and louder! FRODO PULLS the RING close to his body as he turns to SAM.
FRODO looks at SAM, the RING has finally taken him.
SAM SCREAMS as FRODO PUTS THE RING ON! He VANISHES.
With a storm of wings, the NAZGUL wheel around and hurtle towards MOUNT DOOM!
In the midst of the BATTLE -- GANDALF realising FRODO has been seen.
FOOTPRINTS moving across the ASH COVERED CAVERN.
SUDDENLY! GOLLUM smashes a ROCK down on SAM'S HEAD, knocking him to the GROUND! GOLLUM LEAPS on to the INVISIBLE FRODO! CLOSE ON: FRODO'S FOOTPRINTS.
GOLLUM clawing FRANTICALLY, riding on the BACK of the INVISIBLE FRODO.
ARAGORN turns and is confronted by an ARMOURED TROLL, wielding an ENORMOUS MALLET.
GOLLUM suddenly LIFTS HIS HANDS to his face and BITES.
FRODO MATERIALIZES as he DROPS TO HIS KNEES, clutching his BLEEDING HAND.
he SCREAMS. 
The FIRES below roar in anger, RED LIGHT blazes, and all the cavern is filled with a great glare and heat.
LEGOLAS as ARAGORN falls to the GROUND.
GOLLUM triumphantly HOLDS the RING ALOFT.
GOLLUM dancing GLEEFULLY.
PERILOUSLY close to the EDGE OF THE CHASM.
ARAGORN turns to see HUGE TROLL FEET moving CLOSER.
LEGOLAS races toward him.
GOLLUM still TRIUMPHANT on the edge of the PRECIPICE.
The FIERY LAVA casting an EVIL LIGHT.
He jumps about in.
FRODO rises slowly.
his EYES lock on GOLLUM.
time seems to stand still as each regards the other.
the RING glinting in GOLLUM'S HAND.
SUDDENLY! FRODO lunges at GOLLUM.
FRODO thuds into GOLLUM, lifting him off his feet.
FRODO and GOLLUM locked in STRUGGLE plummet over the EDGE OF THE CHASM.
THUD! The HUGE FOOT of the CAVE TROLL lands on ARAGORN'S chest.
He STABS at it ineffectually.
GANDALF in despair.
SAM watches in HORROR as FRODO and GOLLUM disappear into the CHASM!
GOLLUM falls into the CRACK OF DOOM.
INSTANTLY engulfed in the CHURNING LAVA! ANGLE ON: SAM leans into the CRACK OF DOOM.
FRODO clinging onto the ROCK FACE with his ONE.
The CAVERNS are SHAKING VIOLENTLY.
SAM desperately reaches for him.
FRODO is too far down.
FRODO looks at SAM, his face impassive.
FRODO struggles to reach SAM.
he can't reach WITH HIS BLEEDING hand, and falls back, still clinging valiantly to the ROCK with his good hand.
FRODO looks at SAM imploringly.
FRODO reaches up once more and this time SAM GRASPS his hand TIGHTLY.
The RING sits on the river of LAVA for a brief moment, then SINKS away.
the EYE OF SAURON.
Across the GREAT PLAINS -- MOUNT DOOM is clearly.
On the BATTLEFIELD, all eyes turn to MOUNT DOOM.
The CAVE TROLL, with ARAGORN at his mercy, is distracted by the SOUNDS emanating from MORDOR.
he turns in TERROR and RUNS OFF.
The FELLOWSHIP turn to watch as the MASSIVE DARK TOWER of SAURON shakes itself to pieces! TOWERS FALL and WALLS CRUMBLE; vast spires of SMOKE and spouting STEAM billow up! The FOUNDATIONS explode apart.
The BLACK GATES collapse in a huge cloud of ASH! THE ORCS are FLEEING in all DIRECTIONS.
As the very foundations of MORDOR collapse! THE COMPANY watch as MOUNT DOOM explodes.
The reason for their MISERY is clear.
it's plain FRODO and SAM can never survive the cataclysm.
The VOLCANO is ERUPTING, FIRE belches from it's riven summit, sending LAVA streaming down it's sides.
FRODO and SAM stagger out of the SAMMATH NAUR.
All around ASH and MOLTEN ROCKS fall.
The SKIES burst into THUNDER, seared with LIGHTNING.
The screaming NAZGUL fall from the sky in FLAMES! The ground is shaking so violently that FRODO and SAM can barely stand.
FRODO stumbles.
SAM helps him up.
FRODO smiles.
SAM looks down at FRODO.
FRODO'S FACE is at PEACE.
his BURDEN destroyed.
FRODO and SAM crawl onto a ROCK as LAVA streams towards them.
in seconds THEIR ROCK is an island in a sea of MOLTEN.
FRODO shuts his eyes.
FRODO glances at SAM.
he is WEEPING.
FRODO wrapping an ARM around SAM'S SHOULDER.
TWO TINY HOBBITS waiting to die amid a cataclysmic landscape.
LAVA erupts around them.
FIREBALLS rain down from the sky.
We SLOWLY FADE TO BLACK.
GWAIHIR, the GREAT EAGLE flaps towards CAMERA.
He bears GANDALF on his back, and is followed by TWO MORE.
The EAGLES bravely fly amid the RAINING ASH and MOLTEN ROCKS.
SNATCH FRODO and SAM from the ROCK!
FRODO'S FACE as the FIERY VOLCANO recedes away beneath him.
the wind ruffles his hair.
he PASSES OUT.
FRODO'S eyes flutter open.
looking around slowly his eyes alight on GANDALF.
GANDALF'S face breaks into a smile.
Laughter as MERRY and PIPPIN run in jumping on the bed and hugging FRODO.
GIMLI and LEGOLAS enter the room.
their joy is PLAIN.
ARAGORN joins them -- the FELLOWSHIP is complete.
Finally FRODO'S eyes fall upon a FIGURE standing apart from the others.
it is SAM.
FRODO'S and SAM'S eyes meet.
SWEEPING over the MINAS TIRITH WALLS, racing towards the TOP of the CITY.
through a BLIZZARD of WHITE FLOWER PETALS! MINAS TIRITH is restored.
it gleams WHITE in the.
SOARING UP: to REVEAL the COURT OF THE KINGS, CROWDED with PEOPLE.
cramming the WIDE PATH leading to the TOWER.
The CROWN of CONDOR glints in the BRILLIANT.
GANDALF places the CROWN upon ARAGORN'S head.
ARAGORN smiles up at GANDALF.
ARAGORN slowly RISES, turning to face the CROWD, who CHEER and CLAP for their KING.
The CHEERS of his PEOPLE are DEAFENING.
ARAGORN sings for his people.
Then WALKS in SLOW PROCESSION down the WHITE PAVED PATH as the CROWD BOW their heads in respect to their NEW KING.
ARAGORN passes EOWYN and FARAMIR who bow before him.
EOMER steps FORWARD to bow in respect.
TRUMPETS SOUND as a PROCESSION of ELVES, dressed in shimmering SILVERS and WHITES, led by LEGOLAS approach the KING.
LEGOLAS gestures behind him.
ARAGORN'S eyes scan amongst the ELVES.
A BANNER carried aloft bearing the WHITE TREE of GONDOR in FULL FLOWER.
the RANKS of ELVES part revealing: ARWEN, eyes shining.
MORTAL now, but deeply in love.
carrying the STANDARD of GONDOR.
ARAGORN kisses her ELROND looks on.
his face breaks into a smile.
ARAGORN and ARWEN embrace.
ARAGORN and ARWEN walking through the CROWD towards four SMALL FIGURES who stand nervously at the end of the.
ARAGORN and ARWEN look on FRODO, SAM, MERRY and PIPPIN, as they stand before them.
The FOUR HOBBITS, dressed in their OLD CLOTHES, clean and mended, bow their heads.
ARAGORN raises his HAND.
ARAGORN drops on ONE KNEE, kneeling before THE HOBBITS, his head bowed.
followed by all assembled there.
TEARS spring into FRODO'S EYES.
He clutches SAM'S shoulder as PEOPLE pay homage to the courage of two little Hobbits from the Shire.
CAMERA RISES INTO THE AIR away from the CROWDED CITADEL, until MINAS TIRITH becomes a SPECK in the LANDSCAPE.
DISSOLVING into the PARCHMENT MAP of MIDDLE-EARTH.
Slowly drifting across the MAP towards the WEST.
Revealing HOBBITON bathed in a WARM SUNSET.
As FRODO, SAM, MERRY and PIPPIN ride into SHOT on PONIES.
past ODO PROUDFOOT who shakes his head at the STRANGENESS of their appearance.
FRODO brings a round of drinks to the TABLE.
Nearby a HUGE FUSS is being made of a LARGE PUMPKIN which has been brought in to be shown off.
The FOUR FRIENDS look at each other.
A WORLD of experience now separates from their fellow HOBBITS.
Seated at a long table, the FOUR FRIENDS raise their glasses.
SAM'S eye is suddenly caught! ANGLE ON: ROSIE COTTON who is serving behind the BAR.
SAM steels himself and leaves to go and TALK to ROSIE.
FRODO, MERRY and PIPPIN exchange smiles as.
On a BEAUTIFUL sunny day, SAM and ROSIE are MARRIED.
With their dearest FRIENDS gathered around them.
ROSIE throws a beautiful bouquet of FLOWERS.
it's caught by PIPPIN who smiles in embarrassment.
FRODO walks through BAG END to his STUDY.
FRODO from behind.
He is HUNCHED over a DESK.
to reveal BILBO'S RED BOOK open on FRODO'S DESK.
He is WRITING in the LAST CHAPTERS.
In careful neat HANDWRITING.
FRODO turns back the pages, REVEALING: There and Back Again -- A Hobbit's Tale, by Bilbo Baggins.
He writes below it as SAM GAMGEE calls out from the door.
FRODO WINCES with a sharp GASP of PAIN.
He puts the PEN down and CLUTCHES at his SHOULDER.
SAM has entered the ROOM and stands BEHIND FRODO.
He is DRAWN and PALE.
SAM at a loss for words.
A COLD WINTER'S MORNING.
Out of the FOG rattles a SMALL COVERED WAGON; GANDALF is at the REINS.
FRODO, SAM, MERRY and PIPPIN are waiting on PONIES for the WAGON.
all are wearing their GREY ELVEN ROBES.
GANDALF arrives in his CART.
The WAGON trundles along at a SEDATE PACE.
SAM, MERRY and PIPPIN ride behind, leading FRODO'S EMPTY.
FRODO is SITTING in the WAGON.
his ARM around his UNCLE BILBO.
BILBO is extremely OLD and FRAIL.
He is DOZING.
his head slumped.
BILBO'S eyes flutter OPEN.
with effort he raises his head.
BILBO nods back to sleep.
FRODO rests his head against him.
FRODO, walking arm-in-arm with BILBO through a beautiful ELVEN BOAT-HOUSE.
GANDALF follows with MERRY, PIPPIN and SAM.
As BILBO looks up, he is STUNG by the BEAUTY before him.
Passing under a beautiful ELVEN ARCHWAY to reveal a WHITE SHIP, ready to depart from a WHITE STONE.
ELROND, CELEBORN and GALADRIEL are waiting for them.
The SETTING SUN slowly dropping behind the SEA visible between the HEADLANDS of a beautiful INLET.
The lighting is beautiful.
BILBO bows in acknowledgement to ELROND, CELEBORN and GALADRIEL, who return his GREETING.
BILBO walks down toward the BOAT and BOARDS with ELROND.
GALADRIEL is watching him.
She SMILES, TURNS and BOARDS the BOAT.
GANDALF kneels before SAM, MERRY and PIPPIN -- who are all looking TEARFUL.
There is GREAT SADNESS.
MERRY SNIFFLES LOUDLY.
GANDALF turns and walks away.
FRODO is DOWNCAST.
SUDDENLY, GANDALF turns and looks toward him.
GANDALF looks at FRODO then turns and slowly walks towards the GANGPLANK to board the SHIP.
FRODO turns to SAM.
FRODO is holding BILBO'S RED JOURNAL out towards him.
SAM is SOBBING.
MERRY and PIPPIN are DISTRAUGHT.
FRODO hugs MERRY and PIPPIN, and last of all SAM and climbs on board the SHIP.
FRODO a look of WONDERMENT crosses his face as he STEPS FORWARD and ACCEPTS GANDALF'S HAND.
SAM, MERRY and PIPPIN comfort each other as the WHITE SHIP glides away from the DOCK.
The WHITE BOAT sails away towards the HEADLANDS, disappearing into the GOLDEN LIGHT of the SETTING SUN.
SAM in growing darkness, still follows the departing SHIP with his eyes, MERRY and PIPPIN are already preparing to leave.
SAM walks up the path towards his house.
A LITTLE GIRL toddles up to greet him.
ROSIE COTTON steps up and kisses SAM on the cheek.
The Beast's journey takes it past a dangling fish hook, baited with worms.
Past a tempting lure, sparkling in the sun.
Past a swiping bear claw.
The Beast isn't worried.
WILL BLOOM, AGE 3, listens wide-eyed as his father EDWARD BLOOM, 40's and handsome, tells the story.
In every gesture, Edward is bigger than life, describing each detail with absolute conviction.
A few years later, and Will sits with the other INDIAN GUIDES as Edward continues telling the story to the tribe.
Edward points to his wedding band, glinting in the firelight.
While the other boys are rapt with attention, Will looks bored.
Edward is chatting up Will's pretty DATE to the homecoming dance.
She is enjoying the story, but also the force of Edward's charisma.
He's hypnotizing.
WILL, now with braces, is fuming and ready to leave.
His mother SANDRA -- from whom he gets his good looks and practicality -- stands with him at the door.
She looks gorgeous.
She couldn't be any happier if this were her own wedding.
Will can't take any more.
Josephine tries to hold him back, but he gets up and leaves.
As he leaves, Will mutters in perfect unison with his father.
Will reaches the door, where his mother intercepts him.
He focuses his words on Sandra.
A LAUGH from the crowd.
Edward motions for Sandra to get up here with him.
As she crosses, we can see that thirty years of marriage has not lessened their affection for each other.
As they kiss, Edward tweaks her chin a special little way.
The crowd APPLAUDS.
Edward toasts the happy couple.
Josephine covers well for her absent husband, a smile as warm as summer.
We come into the middle of an argument on the sidewalk.
Both men are a little drunk.
A long beat, then.
Will won't let him get the last word.
ANGLE ON Edward.
A hand to wave, enough of you.
He walks away.
ANGLE ON Will, still fuming with righteous anger.
A typically busy day.
On hold with the phone cradled under an ear, Will sorts through a bundle of mail dropped on his desk.
Returning to the mail, he finds a hand-addressed envelope.
Rips it open.
At the table, Sandra talks on the phone while Edward fixes a sandwich.
Edward takes a seat, starting to eat his sandwich.
Sandra stands by the window, watching as.
Edward swims laps in the family pool.
He's born to the water.
Edward stares intently into the water, a lion in wait.
We LOOK DOWN at the river, where Edward's reflection is caught in the dark water.
As the water ripples past, something changes.
Sure enough, as we LOOK UP again, it's a younger EDWARD BLOOM, 20's, staring into the water.
He's not just handsome, not just charming.
It's as if all the forces of the natural world had conspired to create him.
Suddenly, this Edward thrusts both hands into the water, grabbing hold of.
He brings the catfish up to his face.
Looks it right in the eye.
A beat, then the Beast spits out Edward's gold ring.
Over the sound of rain, a phone RINGS on a chair.
By the tone of the ring, we know we're not in the U.S. -- it has that insistent European sound.
As it keeps RINGING, we look to see the apartment is mostly empty, just a few half-unpacked boxes.
A cradle is still in its carton.
KEYS in the lock.
LAUGHTER in the hallway.
The door swings open to reveal a drenched Will (29) carrying four sacks of groceries, the bottoms collapsing from the rain.
His wife Josephine (28) pushes past him to get the phone.
She hands the phone to Will, concerned.
Half-stripped, Will takes the phone.
This won't be good news.
He covers the mouthpiece.
Looks over to Josephine.
Will has a window seat in coach.
Josephine sits beside him, putting on hand lotion.
Hours later, and the lights are dimmed.
Most of the PASSENGERS are asleep, including Josephine.
Her head is propped against Will's shoulder, her hands tucked under her belly.
A beat, then he notices a BORED BOY in the next row over.
Off the glow of the reading light, the boy is using his hands to cast shadows on the seat back.
The kid is pretty good, making a convincing bird, a passable monkey, and finally a dog.
We PUSH IN on the silhouettes.
Focusing on the final shadow, we come to find Edward making the shapes.
Will (6) sits in his pajamas on the floor next to him.
The endtable lamp lies between them, its shade off to cast big shadows on the wall.
Edward looks around for a beat, seeing if his wife is in earshot.
He then leans in, complicitous.
Will smiles, excited to hear the forbidden story.
Edward holds up his hand, counting the names on his fingers.
As his hand moves past the light.
A flashlight SWEEPS past.
The night is WHIRRING and BREATHING, alive.
The moon hangs low, casting long shadows.
Five kids walk past in silhouette.
Four have flashlights on.
The fifth keeps tripping, crashing into YOUNG EDWARD (10).
MOVING UP behind the kids, we find ourselves at the gates of.
We finally come to the kids, staring in through the gate.
Edward looks back at the spooky house.
He hands Zacky his flashlight, then starts climbing the gate.
Edward drops down on the far side of the gate.
Truth be told, Edward is scared, but he forges ahead anyway.
Wilbur looks to Ruthie, and they're in complete agreement.
They get the hell out of there.
Zacky would run too, but Don holds him by the collar.
Edward curves around the tall bushes that hide the front door.
He steps on the porch.
The boards SQUEAL and CREAK, but he continues on.
A cat SCREAMS OUT from a broken wicker rocker.
Catching his breath, Edward reaches the front door.
The doorknob is ancient brass, two projections that look like horns.
Yet Edward extends his hand, reaching closer and closer before he finally.
Impossibly fast, the door opens, revealing an OLD WOMAN with a patch over her left eye.
She looks like she's been dead for years, but too stubborn to lie down.
Zacky and Don Price wait for Edward, each moment more convinced he's already dead.
But suddenly, he's back at the gate.
The Old Woman steps out of the shadows behind Edward, flipping up her eye patch.
When their flashlight beam hits her left eye, it shines with a hellish glow.
We RUSH IN on Zacky, who is paralyzed by what he sees.
An OLD MAN -- Zacky -- stands on a wobbly stepladder, changing a lightbulb.
Suddenly, the ladder gives way and he falls.
Dead.
We RUSH IN on Don Price.
Twenty-year old Don Price falls face-forward on the tile, face mushed in the grout.
Very much dead.
Don and Zacky both tremble with fear.
The latter has tears in his eyes.
The brothers suddenly bolt.
Still standing next to the Old Woman, Edward smiles.
Edward helps her back inside.
He could leave now, but curiosity gets the better of him.
The Old Woman turns to him slightly, still not facing him.
The Old Woman smiles a little, a crooked grin of broken teeth.
The Old Woman turns leaning her face right in front of his.
And on a silent count of one, two, three -- Edward looks into The Eye.
This time we don't cut.
Instead, we HOLD ON Edward as he witnesses his death.
He stares transfixed, perplexed and amused.
The Old Woman nods.
Heading back to the house.
DR. JULIUS BENNETT (85) enters from the foyer, still winded from coming down the stairs.
He judges her belly.
He leans close to her, whispering in her ear.
She smiles, surprised but not doubting.
Coming out from the kitchen, Will slowly climbs the stairs.
They CREAK with every step.
The wall is filled with family photos, happier times.
Most of the pictures are of Will, starting when he was an infant and ending at his wedding.
As he climbs the stairs, we can see him growing up with every step.
A crack of sunlight spills around the half-open door at the end of the hallway.
Will walks towards it, running a hand along the wallpaper.
Almost at the door, he stops for a beat.
Gets his breath.
Then goes inside.
Edward Bloom, 61, lies asleep on the bed.
Although he's not the vibrant man we've seen before, it's not as bad we feared.
The illness has been quick, and left him largely intact.
There are no I.V.'s, no monitors, nothing.
Coming up to the bed.
Edward cracks open an eye, a beat before he focuses.
He tries to say something, but no words come out.
He looks over at a pitcher on the nightstand.
Will pours him a glass of water, helping him hold it to his parched lips.
A very long, tense beat.
Will almost speaks again to fill the silence.
A beat, then he remembers the can of Ensure.
Holds it up.
Edward recoils.
A beat, then Edward rolls his eyes.
Will cracks open the can, finding a straw on the nightstand.
Edward slurps down as much of the Ensure as he can stand, then pushes the can away.
He swallows with difficulty.
Will won't commit to Edward's assessment.
Edward LAUGHS a little, which becomes a COUGH.
The HACKING escalates until another drink of water gets it under control.
Taking the half- empty Ensure, Will gets up to go.
He's at the door when.
He smiles at his joke.
Shutting the door behind himself, Will drinks the rest of the Ensure himself.
It tastes horrible.
Heading for the stairs, Will walks past an open door.
As he leaves frame, we STAY BEHIND to look inside.
Where an eight-year old Will is propped up in bed, his face covered with chicken pox and pink calamine lotion.
His voice is high and thin, but he gives it his all.
Suddenly, his voice CRACKS and DROPS a half-octave.
Embarrassed, Edward just keeps SINGING, trying to follow along with the baritone part.
He pulls at his collar.
Then pulls again, his face getting red.
He's starting to undo the collar button when it POPS off by itself.
Two more buttons fly off.
One hits a CHUBBY WOMAN in the neck.
As we watch, Edward's pant cuffs rise inch by inch -- that's how fast he's growing.
Young Edward lies in bed, his limbs connected to various pulleys and levers to support his weight.
He has a dozen encyclopedias around him, and another dozen on the floor.
The encyclopedia article, complete with drawings.
Young Edward thinks this through.
The CRACK of a bat announces the game-winning home run.
The crowd CHEERS the swing, and especially the batter as he rounds the bases.
Although we've seen him briefly before, this is our first real exposure to GROWN-UP EDWARD, who we'll follow from roughly the ages of to SINGLE SHOTS: Football hero Edward leads his team to victory.
On the sidelines, a PRETTY GIRL admits the name of her secret love.
The other GIRLS SQUEAL in agreement.
Don Price looks over, glowers.
Edward takes an impossible shot at the buzzer from the other end of the court.
Naturally, he makes it, winning the game.
As the crowd goes wild for Edward, Don Price is the only teammate who doesn't mob him.
Edward carries a dog out of a burning house.
A FLASH.
Pissed, Don Price throws his crappy lima bean plants in the trash.
As two FARMERS shake their heads, we REVERSE to a show a massive hole punched through the side of a barn.
It's roughly the shape of man, but no human could be that large.
We still haven't seen the full stranger.
A MOB of about have gathered, many of them with shotguns.
Amid the crowd we see Don Price.
Agreement from the crowd.
And then.
Everyone turns to see who said that.
The crowd parts to reveal none other than Edward Bloom.
Don Price glowers.
Edward climbs up the last bit of the steep hillside, reaching the mouth of a cave.
Outside, buzzards squabble over the remains of the giant's feast: broken barrels, bones picked clean.
In his most serious voice, Edward calls out.
From deep in a cave, a thunderous voice.
The giant's voice has such force, it blows Edward's hair back.
A beat, then we hear a RUMBLE, like a train coming.
Edward braces himself, fists ready for a fight, if that's what it's going to take.
As the RUMBLE gets louder, the ground starts to shake.
Just how big is this guy.
Edward picks up a stone, ready to play David to Goliath.
KARL THE GIANT is bigger than any man you've ever seen.
He's completely feral, with a beard to his elbow and skin scratched and blistered.
What remains of his clothes are ragged and muddy.
Karl leans over Edward, blocking the sun.
Edward throws his rock, but it just bounces off.
Edward ponders the best response, settling on.
Karl's eyes narrow, confused.
Edward closes his eyes, hands at his side, ready to be eaten.
Karl just stares at him, not sure what to do.
After a beat, Edward opens his eyes a tiny bit, just to see what the giant is doing.
Relieved to see he's not licking his chops.
Karl sits down with a BOOM, dejected.
Reaching up, Edward shoves his hand into Karl's mouth.
But the giant spits it back out.
And that's the sad truth.
Karl is less a monster than a freak -- a giant man, but in the end, just a man.
Edward takes a seat beside him.
Circling behind them, we look down at Ashton -- a tiny town in a tiny valley.
Karl smiles, but then it fades.
A certain sad suspicion.
Karl thinks a moment.
Then they shake on it.
IN A SINGLE SHOT, Karl cuts his hair with hedge clippers, while Edward cuts up a surplus army tent to make him a shirt.
Spirits buoyed by the high school MARCHING BAND, all the good CITIZENS of Ashton are gathered to see off Edward and Karl.
There's a few tears amid the familiar faces.
Edward ducks a bit so the Mayor can put the key around his neck.
The crowd CHEERS.
And with that, Edward and Karl start walking, waving as they go.
Only DON PRICE, smoking on the corner, isn't sad to see Edward go.
Many of the townfolk come onto the street to hug Edward or shake his hand.
As the crowd parts, he finds himself face to face with.
The ruckus slows and quiets, as if a strange spell has been cast.
She motions for Edward to lean down, so she can whisper something to him.
Although we're VERY CLOSE, we can't hear her voice.
The advice only succeeds in confusing Edward.
We TILT UP from the road to reveal Edward and Karl walking out of Ashton.
Each wears a backpack with all his earthly possessions.
Edward and Karl come to a bend, where the paved road veers left and an overgrown dirt road runs straight.
The old road is blocked with signs and warnings of danger.
Karl looks at the dirt road, wary.
A little paranoid.
Karl perks up, even though it means more for him to carry.
The road is overgrown, but not altogether creepy.
The sun is still shining, and the birds still CHIRPING.
The road has narrowed to a rough path.
Spikes of sunlight break through the thick canopy, catching particles in the air.
Coming around a bend, his PITCH DROPS as he sees thick, thorny vines growing across the path.
He stops.
For the first time, he realizes the birds have stopped singing.
The forest is dead quiet.
He looks back the way he came.
But Edward presses on.
He carefully steps through the thorns.
Just then a CAWING crow swoops down and grabs the hat right out of his hands.
Edward tosses the sign and forges ahead, into the spiderwebs.
Edward emerges from the forest, brushing the last cobwebs off and shaking the spiders from his shirt.
One is stuck in his sleeve, and he has to dance to get it out.
Even then, he still keeps twitching, convinced another one is left behind.
At his feet, the gravel road has returned, smooth and dusty and comforting.
Ahead lies a tiny one-street town -- smaller even than Ashton -- with powerlines emerging from the woods to feed it.
Dangling from the line above he sees two dozen pairs of shoes, their laces tied together.
It's a main street with stores on each side: Cole's Pharmacy, Talbot's Five and Dime, Al's Country Store.
Everything is old, but this isn't a ghost town.
In fact, there's a group of about CITIZENS spilling out to see Edward approach.
Most are smiling.
What's more, all of these people are barefoot.
A forty-year old man named BEAMEN comes out of the seed store to greet Edward.
Friendly but a little drunk, he's the closest thing the town has to a mayor.
He's carrying a clipboard.
Beamen checks the clipboard.
Still looking.
Still confused.
A helpful woman named MILDRED chimes in.
Beamen's daughter JENNY (8) hides behind her father, peering around to look at the handsome stranger.
He didn't mean it as a joke, but for some reason, everyone's laughing.
Sitting at the kitchen table, Edward takes a second slice of apple pie.
He and Beamen are joined by NORTHER WINSLOW (30), who fancies himself a cultured artist, though he's never left the state.
Young Jenny is stealthily untying the laces on Edward's shoes.
Suddenly, Jenny YANKS OFF Edward's shoes.
She races for the door.
He chases after her.
As she runs, Jenny ties Edward's laces together.
Reaching the edge of town, she tosses the shoes up and around the power line -- a perfect throw.
The gathered citizens of Spectre CHEER for Edward, who is confused and overwhelmed.
The women hug him.
Men shake his hand.
Still focused on his shoes.
The townsfolk continue to congratulate Edward.
Norther grabs his notebook back.
Edward looks to the bank, where young Jenny Hill is watching him.
Embarrassed to admit it.
He starts to wade back to the bank.
Edward climbs up onto the shore, completely drenched.
He pulls up his pant legs to reveal three shiny leeches clinging to his skin.
Eager to get off this subject.
Lanterns and streamers hang on cables across the street, and a small stage has been built at one end to hold FIDDLERS.
The whole town is there in celebration of its newest citizen, Edward Bloom.
Before he can protest, two WOMEN have grabbed him by the arms, pulling him in to dance with them.
The resulting dance number seems both choreographed and complete chaos.
From FARMER to BAKER'S WIFE, everyone wants to dance with Edward, who finds himself tossed around like a stick caught in a whirlpool.
Still, he's having a blast.
Jenny grabs both his hands, and they spin wildly.
Beamen plucks his LAUGHING daughter away to dance with her.
Then Mildred cuts in to dance with Edward.
It's hard to hear over the MUSIC.
Edward stops dancing.
A beat, then he heads for the edge of the crowd.
And with that, Edward walks down Main Street.
The townspeople stop dancing, disbelieving, some shaking their heads.
Poor Edward Bloom's gone crazy.
Jenny runs to him.
She'd tackle him if she could.
Edward keeps walking.
VARIOUS SHOTS: Edward negotiates the thorns in his bare feet.
It's horrible.
Almost unendurable.
And then it gets worse.
The trees ahead are moving.
At first, it just seems to be the wind blowing the branches, but as we hear the wood CRACKING and GROANING, there's no mistaking it: they're trying to block him.
Snake-like WHITE ROOTS shoot out of the ground, grabbing for his ankles.
He leaps up, kicking off one tree trunk to grab another one's branches.
He swings off, lands and rolls.
Now all the trees are moving to block him, their dark shapes towering over him in the flashes of LIGHTNING.
As he ducks under branches, the chain holding the Key to the City gets caught.
He's almost strangled, but the chain finally breaks.
The silver key disappears into the mud.
Scrambling forward, he looks for a way out.
But the trees have encircled him, their spiky crowns bending down to crush him.
He SCREAMS up at the night, until his breath is gone.
With a sudden calm.
Another lightning FLASH, and suddenly the trees are back where they've always been.
Edward is lying shoeless and torn in a muddy puddle, staring up at the rain.
And LAUGHING.
His bare foot steps onto asphalt.
Edward turns to see to his right, coming down the larger, paved road.
Edward looks down at his muddy, bloody feet.
With that, the men start walking down the larger road.
Edward and Will sit at opposite ends of the table, with Sandra and Josephine in the middle.
Although Edward has a small plate of food in front of him, he hasn't touched it.
He's exhausted from the trip downstairs, but determined to maintain the family dinner ritual.
The other three eat awkwardly, each CLINK and SCRAPE of a knife or fork resonating.
Will finally breaks the silence.
As Will scoops out another serving of potatoes, Edward suddenly speaks.
All three stop to listen.
She smiles.
He tries to recollect, but it's already gone.
Josephine motions, is it okay for her to sit on the bed? He nods.
She shakes her head.
A long beat.
Then, deadpan.
He rolls his eyes, why not.
Josephine leaves, heading down the hall to get her camera.
We STAY WITH Edward in bed.
Edward grimaces, a flash of pain.
Around others, he's hiding how much it hurts, but alone we can see how bad it is.
He controls his breathing, trying to push through it.
She returns with her camera.
Edward smiles, doing a good job masking the pain.
A devilish smile.
We are where the second-rate carnival is parked for the moment in an Alabama field.
He's still carrying the backpack we saw earlier, and scratched up from his trip through Spectre.
Joining the crowd, he heads into the big-top.
A troupe of STILT-WALKING FIREBREATHERS finishes their act to tremendous APPLAUSE.
As the performers clear away, the circus' owner-and-ringmaster AMOS CALLOWAY (50) approaches the stands.
He may only be four feet tall, but Amos has a titanic presence.
From behind Amos, CARNIES start rolling a massive ball towards the crowd.
Amos comes up to a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN in the first row, a quieter moment.
The carnies back away from the ball as a deep DRUM ROLL begins.
A moment, then the ball starts to bulge from inside.
A foot suddenly bursts out from within.
GASPS from the crowd.
That foot is massive.
In the stands, Edward looks closer.
As the drum beat intensifies, a second foot breaks out.
Followed by hands.
Shoulders.
Finally, the head.
From a very LOW ANGLE, we look up to see just how massive he is.
He seems to fill the Heavens.
With his shaved head and giant club, he seems more ogre than man.
In the bandstands, a YOUNG BOY's jaw drops in awe.
A tight spotlight follows him, revealing faces in the crowd.
Colossus passes Edward, who seems unimpressed.
He leans with the spotlight, WHISTLING to get the big man's attention.
He points to the edge of the stands, where his friend is sitting on the dirt.
stands up, so big the spotlight has to widen just to hold him.
He's a good foot taller than Colossus.
There's a GASP from the crowd, along with nervous anticipation -- what will happen next? ANGLE ON Amos, stunned, megaphone dangling.
ANGLE ON Colossus, realizing the gig is up.
With a resigned shrug, he rests his club on his shoulder and walks away into the shadows.
As the stands empty, Edward and Karl talk to Amos.
As Amos pulls Karl aside to give him the hard sell, Edward notices a BEAUTIFUL YOUNG WOMAN (16) leaving with her family.
She's wearing a blue dress and hat.
For no good reason, she looks back at Edward.
The two make eye contact.
And as they do, all motion FREEZES.
A fiery baton remains mid-twirl, flames locked in place.
A spilled box of popcorn hangs in mid-air, each kernel like a snowflake.
Only Edward is free to move, winding his way between the frozen bodies, ducking underneath arms to get closer and closer to this woman.
Suddenly, everything RUSHES.
The crowd becomes a blur, and the young woman is lost in its wake.
Now it's Edward who's frozen, helpless in time.
Edward checks in windows as cars pull out, searching for his fated love.
Colossus is thumbing for a ride.
The last pickup truck stops and lets him climb in back.
As the truck pulls out, it passes a dejected Edward.
He'll never find that girl, the love of his life.
Amos leans over so Karl can sign a contract on his back.
He spots Edward walking back into the tent.
Amos hands off the contract to a CLOWN.
As Amos starts to walk away, Edward hurries to catch up with him.
He points to the bleachers, where no backpack is to be found.
Getting in front of Amos, Edward stops him.
Amos smiles, amused.
Amos takes a long look at him.
Ultimately, there's no way he can say no.
He shrugs.
Edward shakes Amos's hand before he can retract the offer.
We move into a MONTAGE.
CLOSE ON Edward, smiling nervously.
His head is tilted to the side, and as we PULL BACK, we see why: he's holding it in a MASSIVE LION's open mouth.
The beast's sharp teeth are just poking his skin.
If the lion so much as flinches, Edward is dead.
The CROWD applauds, which makes the lion antsy.
Which makes Edward antsier.
His eyes droopy from lack of sleep, Edward mans the whirling amusement park ride.
Nodding off, Edward falls backward, into the path of the spinning arms.
One of the Hydra cars hits him square in the gut, throwing him up and away, sailing feet through the air.
Amos is walking past.
Amos stops, looks at the young man.
Finally.
He walks away.
We PUSH IN on Edward, enraptured by the concept.
Edward shovels shit in the nastiest stables you've ever seen.
But all he can think about is.
CLOSE ON Edward, lost in quiet reverie, pondering his latest bit of information.
A sudden EXPLOSION as Edward is shot out of a giant cannon.
Under a full moon, Edward walks up to the battered camper, and is about to knock when he notices it's rocking.
A lot.
But Edward KNOCKS anyway.
Suddenly, the rocking and moaning stop.
A beat, then the door handle begins to RATTLE.
It seems to be stuck.
Edward turns the knob.
Suddenly, the door BURSTS OPEN.
Edward is knocked down by a massive black dog, biggest you've ever seen.
It has green glowing eyes and a lick of fire for a tongue.
Edward wrestles with the beast, its mouth snapping at his throat.
Blocking with an arm, Edward tries to push himself free, but the creature's hands -- it has hands instead of paws -- hold on tight.
Mr. Soggybottom pulls a revolver out of his clown suit.
Loads a silver bullet.
Edward finally succeeds in throwing the beast off.
He rolls to his feet.
The hell hound squares back on its haunches, GROWLING, ready for another leap.
Mr. Soggybottom sheds a clown tear, aiming the revolver at the dog.
At the last moment.
Edward moves just as Mr. Soggybottom FIRES.
The bullet catches Edward in the shoulder, knocking him down.
The carnies GASP.
Licking its chops, the dog approaches the helpless Edward, who feels the ground around him, looking for some kind of weapon.
He finds only a small stick.
He waves it at the dog, ready to strike it.
Like magic, the dog's whole demeanor changes.
It bounces excitedly, ready to play fetch.
Seeing an opportunity, Edward throws the stick as far as he can.
The dog bounds after it.
It returns a beat later with the flaming stick, which it drops at Edward's feet.
Its tail whips back and forth.
Edward throws the stick again.
The dog takes off in a new direction.
Exhausted from playing fetch all night, Edward throws the stick into the woods.
The still-spry dog goes after it.
It's gone for a long time, long enough that Edward becomes concerned.
He follows it into the woods.
Amos Calloway stands up behind a bush, buck naked and hairy.
He still has the stick in his mouth, which he takes out as Edward approaches.
Edward tosses him his jacket to cover his privates.
Edward walks away.
Then starts running.
He has to get there as soon as possible.
Amos sits down and scratches his ear with his foot.
We DESCEND ON the main quad, to find Edward Bloom dunking his head in the fountain.
He changes out of his grubby shirt into a new one, just out of the package.
It's the mid-1960's, but by the conservative dress of the passing STUDENTS, it could be any era.
Edward stands with a bouquet of daffodils in front of a half- open door.
Through the crack we can see the edge of a YOUNG WOMAN, talking in hushed tones with another girl we can't see.
Finally, a decision is reached.
The door opens to reveal the woman of Edward's dreams, Sandra Kay Templeton.
She's effortlessly beautiful, pure and simple as sunlight.
He can't believe he's finally reached her.
He half-laughs, nervous.
That makes her laugh, not sure what's going on.
ON SANDRA, overwhelmed.
All she can finally think of to say is.
She puts her hand on the door frame.
On her left ring finger, we see a diamond.
ON EDWARD as his heart falls floors.
He tries to suppress the reaction, put on a brave front.
Young Don Price shines his flashlight on Edward.
Recapping earlier football, baseball and basketball highlights, we find Edward beats Don every time.
Edward is dumbstruck.
With all the strength he can muster.
He turns and walks down the front steps.
She stays in the doorway for a few beats, feeling genuinely horrible for what's happened.
But eventually she goes back inside.
We LEAD Edward as he walks away, tears just starting to form.
He EXITS FRAME, leaving only the sorority house in the background.
Edward steps back INTO FRAME, looking at the sorority house.
We CIRCLE as he shouts.
Sandra and her SISTERS peer out through the curtains.
The tweedy ECONOMICS PROFESSOR continues his explanation.
Sandra isn't paying a lot of attention.
He switches on the overhead projector without looking at it.
There's a TITTER from the STUDENTS, but he doesn't notice.
A classmate nudges Sandra, who looks up.
The professor finally notices what's written there.
Walking with her books, Sandra shakes her head, disbelieving.
We look up to the blue sky, where a giant sky-written heart floats in the wind.
At her Sisters' prompting, a just-woken Sandra looks out the second-story window to find the lawn filled with.
Edward stands amid the sea of flowers.
Sandra walks out to him.
She's smiling, confused, joyful and scared.
Out of nowhere, a tear drops down Sandra's cheek.
From down the street.
The adult DON PRICE arrives.
He's pounds of football- playing, Skynyrd-loving, fraternity-proud muscle.
And he's pissed.
A gang of his BROTHERS walk behind him.
Don Price decks him, knocking him down.
Edward gets right back up, but makes no move to defend himself.
Unfazed, Don slugs him again.
Don shrugs, fine.
Then proceeds to kick Edward's ass nine ways to Sunday.
As the ass-whupping continues, we.
Sitting on the can, Don Price pinches a loaf while reading the new Playboy.
Don Price squeezes down hard, trying to shit the unshittable.
Suddenly, he grasps his chest and collapses face-first on the tile.
The same image of Don's dead face on the tile is reflected in The Eye.
The thrashing continues.
Edward somehow fights his way back to his feet, ready to be knocked down again.
Don is about to slug Edward again when he turns.
Sandra pulls off her engagement ring.
There's an audible AHH! from her sisters, and an OHH! from Don's brothers.
Don stands stunned, his mind reeling.
Edward, whose eyes are swollen almost shut, keeps waiting for the next punch.
She hands him the ring.
Another beat, then Don storms off.
Sandra leans over Edward's broken body.
His head lies on the daffodils.
As the MUSIC reaches a crescendo, we suddenly.
He reaches for his glass of water, but Josephine already has it for him.
She watches him while he slowly drinks the entire glass, thirstier than he imagined.
While he's drinking, we.
Will, back from the grocery store, reaches the top of the stairs.
He hears voices coming from the bedroom.
Will quietly approaches the door, not exactly sneaking, but not exactly announcing his presence.
The door is open a few inches, letting him look in on his father and his wife.
In the hallway, Will shifts to a new position, letting himself listen to the story one more time.
Bruised and bandaged, Edward sorts through a big bag of mail with help from Sandra.
He rips open an official-looking letter.
Reading it, his face drops.
FLUTE and DRUM, music rising to a military cadence.
With a buzz cut and paratrooper gear, Edward squats with a dozen other SOLDIERS.
The noise of the ENGINES is deafening, but Edward is engrossed in an Asian phrasebook.
The JUMP LEADER yells.
One by one the men jump out, their chutes clipped to a main line.
When his time comes, Edward leaps.
Looking down, he can see the white parachutes disappearing into the darkness.
It finally POPS.
Edward jumps from the plane.
A THOUSAND CHINESE SOLDIERS sit, bored, watching the equivalent of a U.S.O. show.
A CHINESE VENTRILOQUIST is on stage with his Communist puppet.
We have no idea what they're saying to each other, but every act is fundamentally the same.
The EMCEE comes on to usher him off the stage before he's finished.
The Ventriloquist protests, but finally gives in.
We LOOK DOWN with Edward, who is drifting right for the stage.
He can't steer.
He's helpless.
The lights go out as a DRUM ROLL begins.
He lands with a CLANG on the lighting catwalk above the stage.
He barely grabs on, disconnecting his chute just as the curtain goes up.
The curtain rises to reveal PING (27) at a microphone.
She's as gorgeous a woman as you'll ever see.
She stands with her hips turned in profile.
Her body is a knockout, dress cut to reveal skin.
The soldiers are on their feet, WHISTLING and HOLLERING.
UP ON THE CATWALK, Edward is surprised by an ENEMY SOLDIER.
The two men begin to SCUFFLE.
Ping sings melody while an off-stage voice carries perfect harmony.
Ping HUFFS, turning her back on her sister.
Jing reaches deeper into the closet to find a new dress, exposing Edward's hiding place.
She GASPS.
Ping turns to look.
Jing grabs her, a hand over her mouth, but it's too late.
A rifle-toting GUARD looks in.
Pretending to be her bitchy sister.
The guard obeys.
Ping shakes her sister off.
Edward pulls a photo out of his flak jacket.
Even Ping is a little affected.
Sandra checks the mail, hoping for a letter from Edward.
A black car pulls up.
Two ARMY OFFICERS get out.
Hearing the news, Sandra CRIES OUT.
Sandra hangs sheets to dry on the clotheslines, forming a tunnel of fabric.
Pulling a dress out of the basket, Sandra looks up to see on the sheet in front of her.
She freezes, watching the shadow ripple across the white fabric, blowing so softly in the breeze.
She knows it can't be him.
He's dead.
She turns away.
With all the strength she can gather, she hangs up that dress and digs another one out of the basket.
Looking up, she sees not a shadow but Edward himself standing before her.
She GASPS, disbelieving, but his hand is real.
Without another moment's hesitation, she kisses him.
We're under the covers, where a man's hand traces the curves of a woman's bare back.
A beat, then she turns over in bed, revealing her to be.
She blinks slowly, just waking up.
Will is watching her.
Edward is startled.
Both women quickly gather plates.
Will and Edward both smile.
The women clearly want this to happen.
It settles for a beat after they leave.
Edward looks away, angry and disbelieving.
With a skimmer pole, Will cleans the leaves and debris out of the pool, but it's a fool's errand.
The pool has long since gone native, a shiny slick of algae on the surface, slime covering the cemented rocks.
Suddenly, an underwater shape RIPPLES against the water's surface.
Will is so startled that he drops the pole, which disappears into the murky water.
He looks around, relieved that no one saw that.
The doors open to reveal Sandra, Will and Josephine, staring into the mouth of oblivion.
The storeroom is a museum of hasty decisions and half-finished projects: partially built outboard motors, dead bonsai trees, Frankensteinian lawnmowers.
We also find boxes of products Edward used to sell.
Clearing a path, Sandra leads Will to a roll-top desk, its ribs covered in dust.
Two beaten metal file cabinets sit beside it.
Looking through a new file, Sandra makes a small sound.
A memory.
Sandra hands Will a yellowed telegram.
Will can't believe what he's reading.
A beat, then Sandra stands.
Josephine kisses him, then follows Sandra.
Will re-reads the telegram, still bewildered.
Looking for a place to put it, he tucks it into a strange mechanical hand on the desk.
It clamps down automatically.
We slowly PUSH IN on the telegram, held in the hand.
Edward's VOICE begins as a memory.
On a low platform, Edward pitches a brilliant new product to the crowd.
Edward kisses his pregnant wife goodbye, as much in love as ever.
The man is none other than.
The men shake, disbelieving this lucky coincidence.
He's genuinely proud.
Reaching the front of the line, Norther pulls two pistols out of his coat, FIRING both into the ceiling.
SCREAMS all around.
The skinny SECURITY GUARD makes a halfhearted reach for his gun, but Norther waves him off.
The guard takes out his gun and slides it over.
The TELLER WOMAN nods.
ANGLE ON Edward, not sure what to do.
He has a gun, but he truly doesn't want to shoot Norther.
The Teller Woman is already waving him to the back.
He decides he better go.
The Teller Woman is crying as she works the combination.
Edward feels horrible.
She pulls open the vault door.
The inner sanctum of the Horizon Savings and Loan holds exactly one folding chair.
Edward winces, but doesn't say anything yet.
He rips it open, revealing just a little cash inside.
Even some dimes and pennies.
Caught, Edward has to confess.
Edward continues his narration.
Norther leans in the driver's side window.
Edward looks over at Norther, the reality sinking in.
The two men wave at each other as Edward drives off.
At the last moment, Norther calls out.
Sandra is watering the garden.
Will (5) runs past her to greet Edward, just returned from another trip.
We reveal the Bloom house, the nicest one in the neighborhood.
Bubbles rise from his nose for a few beats, then stop.
It's quiet, except for the distant SPLASHING of water from the spigot.
Edward's eyes are closed.
A long beat.
Another.
Edward opens one eye.
The other eye.
He sits up to find.
sitting on the edge of the tub.
He smiles, then pulls his knees up, making room for her in the tub.
A beat while she considers.
Sandra steps out of her sandals and climbs into the tub, facing him.
Her dress is soaked, but she doesn't mind.
When they separate, she has tears hanging in her eyes.
He wipes them away.
Perched awkwardly on a canoe, Will's made it through another file cabinet.
He goes through the folders page by page, but usually ends up tossing the whole thing in the trash.
He's about to toss a file when he stops.
Takes another look.
Something doesn't make sense.
She hands him five dollars out of her pocket.
He's out the door in a flash.
While Will sips his iced tea, Jenny flips through a form she never expected to see again.
She hands it back to Will.
A long beat.
Jenny is taken back by the suddenness of it.
She's a tangle of conflicting emotions.
Fair enough.
Jenny takes a seat across from him at the table.
It's late, and Edward is pensive.
The first raindrops hit the windshield.
Edward turns on the wipers.
Suddenly, a deluge descends.
It's like being caught in a waterfall.
It's that loud.
Puts on the handbrake.
Just as suddenly, the sound changes -- no longer pounding, but softly SPLASHING.
The world is close and echoing, because the car is underwater.
The tires are still on the road, but where there used to be air is water.
Three catfish swim in front of his headlights.
Realizing his plight, Edward tries to remain calm.
Water is trickling in through the crack between the window and the door, but very slowly.
For now, he's fine.
That's when he sees her -- The Girl in the River.
She's swimming outside the car.
While we never see her face exactly, she remains just as beautiful, just as mysterious, as the first time we saw her.
She puts her hand to the windshield.
He puts his up to meet hers.
And smiles.
It's morning, and the sun shines brightly.
Birds CHIRP.
Trees drip and the grass shines, still wet from last night's rain.
he car which balances precariously ten feet up in an elm tree.
He pulls it out, rubs it off.
It's a key.
It's the Key to the City he lost years ago.
Carrying his busted suitcase, a tired Edward walks toward a one-street town in the distance.
We pass a rusty sign.
Amazed and disbelieving, Edward walks down the center of the road, no cars coming from either direction.
He looks up to find his faded shoes still dangling from the power line, along with the rest of the town's.
We look around the town, on and off Main Street.
We slowly MOVE THROUGH a foreclosure auction to find Edward watching.
Two very corporate MEN IN SUITS, stick out among the bidders.
Edward pitches his plan to Norther.
VARIOUS SHOTS: Expressive and passionate as always, Edward talks to Ping, Jing and Amos Calloway.
Edward climbs out of his car, the road having literally stopped.
The sun is shining, but it can barely penetrate the trees' thick canopy.
In the distance, he sees a shack, so old it's nearly fallen.
He walks toward it, the marshy ground SQUISHING up around his feet, soaking the hems of his trousers.
Edward KNOCKS on the half-hung door, which swings open by itself.
The inside is nicer than you'd think, a real home.
With her back turned to him, Jenny Hill plays the piano.
Without turning, she says.
She keeps PLAYING.
Jenny stops playing, her piece not quite finished.
She turns to face him.
Edward still doesn't recognize her.
Strange to hear it put that way.
He looks at her, puzzled and surprised.
Young Jenny Hill watches barefoot Edward leave Spectre for the first time.
Finally realizing who this woman is.
Before he can say anything more.
Edward pulls the door shut behind him as he leaves, but it breaks off in his hands.
Inside Jenny looks out, surprised and annoyed.
Edward tries to lift the door back on the hinges, but they SNAP off.
The door frame buckles and the whole shack CREAKS.
He tries to lean the door against the frame, but it keeps slipping.
He leans the door a different way.
It holds for a beat then falls in, SMASHING a small table.
Karl pushes against the side of the house until it fits.
Holding nails between his lips, Edward puts in new windows himself.
A white picket fence.
In every detail it is impossibly charming.
Edward is screwing a hat rack into the wall in the foyer.
Jenny leans against the doorframe listening to his story.
And watching him with deepest affection.
Finished with his work, he takes his hat off the chair and hangs it on the rack.
Perfect.
A look between them.
With that last job done, there's no reason for him to be staying any longer.
Does she really mean it? She comes closer.
Edward holds his ground.
She takes his hand, lifting his hat up to the peg.
She's very close -- just a half-inch from kissing him when -- -- Edward gently holds her back.
She freezes, stunned and humiliated.
She pulls away.
With that, he begins to leaves.
She finds a pen and hastily signs the deed to the house.
Hands it to him.
With a look, he thanks her.
Then goes.
Edward takes a final look at this perfect little town.
He climbs in his car and starts the engine.
As we watch, the swamp begins to overtake the house, swallowing it in a tangle of vines and mossy branches.
Shoots burst up through the planks in the porch.
Snakes slither through the marsh.
Day becomes night.
Will and Jenny are still sitting at her table, a pitcher of iced tea between them.
Will smiles to hear it called that.
Jenny is working herself into more of a state by not talking.
ANGLE ON Will, sorting through his swirling thoughts.
He turns to see his wife at a payphone.
She hangs up.
She was calling him.
How can she answer? He half-smiles, realizing the idiocy of his question.
Of course his father's not going to be okay.
Dr. Bennett smiles as he checks Edward's chart.
A long silence, just the sounds of the hospital, doctors being paged.
Will half-smiles.
Patting Will's shoulder, Dr. Bennett leaves.
We STAY ON Will and his father for a long time, then Will takes his pen and starts making a list.
A beat, then we slowly.
It's very early morning, and the first blue light of day is glowing through the vertical blinds.
Still in his chair, Will wakes up a bit at a time.
The notepad is on his lap, the pen in his hand.
He cracks his neck, crooked from sleeping on it wrong.
What woke him up? He looks to his right.
Holds his gaze for a breath.
His father is awake, silently GASPING for breath.
His eyes are open, scared and confused.
Edward shakes his head unambiguously.
Edward nods.
Will pours a glass from the pitcher on the nightstand.
He holds it to his father's lips, but Edward won't drink.
He pushes it away.
He wanted something else.
It takes Edward all his strength to put together each thought.
It's like he's only half-there, fighting to hang on to this world.
ON WILL, realizing.
Edward nods.
Edward looks around, confused and increasingly scared.
He sees the end approaching, but doesn't know exactly what's coming.
Without the story, he's lost.
Fighting the urge to panic.
Will looks around the room, increasingly desperate.
He looks to the nurse call button.
He really wants to press it.
ON EDWARD, waiting for Will to begin.
But Edward throws back the covers.
Before he can answer, Will spots Edward rolling the chair himself, pumping both arms.
Will dashes to catch up with him.
The Heavyset Nurse leans out of Edward's hospital room.
Seeing SECURITY GUARDS heading their way, a quick-thinking Sandra shoves a nearby cart into them, bowling them down.
Will brakes hard, sliding with both feet.
The chair nearly crashes into the back wall as the doors close.
Will races Edward down the row, finally reaching the Chevrolet.
Will lifts his father out of the chair.
Will sets him in the passenger seat.
Hands it off.
Edward unscrews the cap, but instead of drinking it, he douses himself.
Soaks the blanket.
Will pops the trunk.
TIGHT ON Edward, enjoying that detail.
He's focused completely on Will's story.
Will stops short, the traffic backed up.
He HONKS, trying to get around the jam.
Then, up ahead, the cars start moving, shoved aside by massive hands.
It's Karl the Giant, clearing a path by brute force.
Edward leans out the window and waves.
Karl waves back.
The same stretch of the river where it all began.
A CROWD of more than waiting.
Amos Calloway is here with the circus folk, including Mr. Soggybottom.
We also find Edward's Mother and Father, the Mayor, and many others from along the way.
While Ping scans the horizon, Jing nuzzles with her boyfriend, Norther Winslow.
It's Ping who first spots the Chevrolet.
Will gets out of the Chevrolet, overwhelmed by the crowd.
Crossing to the passenger side, Will lifts his father out.
Strangely, he's gotten even lighter.
Will carries him easily.
Edward pulls off his shoes, tying the laces together.
He hands them to Josephine.
She throws them up at the powerline.
They loop over.
APPLAUSE and CHEERS.
The crowd parts to let Will and Edward get to the river.
As he passes, Edward shakes some hands, pats some people on the cheek, and gives others a good poke in the ribs.
Will walks into the river, up to his knees.
He turns back so his father can face the crowd.
Edward waves.
He tweaks her chin.
As the kiss ends, Edward tries to pull off his wedding ring.
But it's stuck.
Finally, he sucks on it, pulling it free with his teeth.
A look to Will, a smile with a glint of gold.
Edward suddenly drops out of Will's arms with a SPLASH.
For he's no longer a man, but rather swimming at his feet.
We watch as the catfish circles, then heads for deeper water, disappearing.
Will and his mother stand knee-deep in the water, watching Edward Bloom swim away into the sunlight.
Will has tears hanging in the corners of his eyes.
We slowly CIRCLE BEHIND a monument, letting it black out the screen.
Will sits on the porch with Sandra and Josephine, watching his SON play in the pool with two NEIGHBOR KIDS.
A fat and happy catfish swims towards us.
The fish passes us with a SPLASH.
We top the rise and the smoggy vastness of Los Angeles at twilight stretches out before us.
It is late, the supermarket all but deserted.
We are tracking in on a fortyish man in Bermuda shorts and sunglasses at the dairy case.
His rumpled look and relaxed manner suggest a man in whom casualness runs deep.
He is feeling quarts of milk for coldness and examining their expiration dates.
The Dude glances furtively about and then opens a quart of milk.
He sticks his nose in the spout and sniffs.
She waits, arms folded.
The Dude has his Ralph's Shopper's Club card to one side and is making out a check to Ralph's for sixty-nine cents.
A small black-and white TV next to her register shows George Bush on the White House lawn with helicopter rotors spinning behind him.
The Dude is going up the walkway of a small Venice bungalow court.
He holds the paper sack in one hand and a small leatherette satchel in the other.
He awkwardly hugs the grocery bag against his chest as he turns a key in his door.
The Dude enters and flicks on a light.
His head is grabbed from behind and tucked into an armpit.
We track with him as he is rushed through the living room, his arm holding the satchel flailing away from his body.
Going into the bedroom the outflung satchel catches a piece of doorframe and wallboard and rips through it, leaving a hole.
The paper bag hugged to his chest explodes milk as it hits the toilet rim and the satchel pulverizes tile as it crashes to the floor.
His head is plunged into the toilet.
Hands haul the Dude out of the toilet.
The Dude blubbers and gasps for air.
His head is plunged back into the toilet.
The hands haul him out again, dripping and gasping.
His head is plunged back in.
The inquisitor hauls the Dude's head out one last time and flops him over so that he sits on the floor, back against the toilet.
Looming over him is a strapping blond man.
Beyond in the living room a young Chinese man unzips his fly and walks over to a rug.
He starts peeing on the rug.
The Dude gropes back in the toilet with one hand.
The Dude's hand comes out of the toilet bowl with his sunglasses.
The blond man stops to unzip the satchel.
He pulls out a bowling ball and examines it in the manner of a superstitious native.
The Dude puts on his dripping sunglasses.
The blond man drops the ball which pulverizes more tile.
The two men look at each other.
The Dude pulls his sunglasses down his nose with one finger and peeks over them.
They turn to leave.
Scattered by a strike.
Music and head credits play over various bowling shots--pins flying, etc.
graceful releases
balls gliding down lanes
bowlers hoisting balls, , sliding feet
ball return spinning up a ball
The music turns into boomy source music, coming from a distant jukebox, as the credits end over a clattering strike.
A lanky blonde man with stringy hair tied back in a ponytail turns from the strike to walk back to the bench.
We are tracking in on the circular bench towards a big man nursing a large plastic cup of Bud.
He has dark worried eyes and a goatee.
Hairy legs emerge from his khaki shorts.
He also wears a khaki army surplus shirt with the sleeves cut off over an old bowling shirt.
Donny, the strike-scoring bowler, enters and sits next Walter.
The Dude, also holding a large plastic cup of Bud, wears some of its foam on his mustache.
Reflected in the plaque we see the Dude entering the room with a YOUNG MAN.
We pull back from the name JEFFREY LEBOWSKI engraved in silver to reveal that the plaque, from Variety Clubs International, honors Lebowski as ACHIEVER OF THE YEAR.
The Dude, wearing shorts and a bowling shirt, turns to look.
So does Brandt, the young man we've been listening to.
He wears a suit and has his hands clasped in front of his groin.
Our continuing track and pan have brought us onto a framed Life Magazine cover which is headlined ARE YOU A LEBOWSKI ACHIEVER? Oddly, the Dude's sunglassed face is on it; we realize that, under the magazine's logo and headline, the display is mirrored.
Entering the room is a fat sixtyish man in a motorized wheelchair--Jeff Lebowski.
He wheels himself behind a desk.
The Dude sits facing him as Brandt withdraws.
The Dude rises.
The Dude is heading for the door.
As the Dude opens the door.
The Dude shuts the door on the old man's bellowing to find himself.
A houseman with a rolled-up carpet on one shoulder goes down a stone walk that winds through the back lawn, past a swimming pool to a garage.
Brandt and the Dude follow.
Arcing around the woman's foot as she finishes painting the nails emerald green.
Looking.
The young woman looks up at him.
She is in her early twenties.
She leans back and extends her leg toward the Dude.
The Dude pulls his sunglasses down his nose and peeks over them.
The Dude tentatively grabs hold of her extended foot.
She waggles her foot and giggles.
The Dude looks over at the pool.
The man bobbing in the inflatable chair is passed out.
He is thin, in his thirties, with long stringy blond hair.
He wears black leather pants and a black leather jacket, open, shirtless, exposing fine blond chest hair and pale skin.
One arm trails off into the water; next to it, an empty whiskey bottle bobs.
Brandt releases a gale of forced laughter.
Brandt nervously takes the Dude by the elbow.
The Dude grudgingly allows himself to be led away, still looking at the young woman.
He continues to lead away the Dude, who looks back over his.
Scattered by a strike.
Donny calls out from the bench.
As the Dude walks back to the scoring table he turns to another team in black bowling shirts--the Cavaliers--that shares the lane.
He lets the small yapping dog out of the carrier.
It scoots around the bowling table, sniffing at bowlers and wagging its tail.
Smokey turns from his last roll to look at Walter.
Walter takes out a gun.
Walter and the Dude walk to the Dude's car.
The Pomeranian trots happily behind Walter who totes the empty carrier.
As the two men get into the car.
Walter is still smug.
A large, brilliant Persian rug lies beneath the Dude's beat- up old furniture.
At the table next to the answering machine the Dude is mixing kalhua, rum and milk.
A beep.
It swings open to reveal a short, hairy, muscular but balding middle-aged man in a black T-shirt and black cut-off jeans.
The Dude takes a swig of his kalhua.
We are pushing Brandt down the high-ceilinged hallway.
Brandt talks back over.
Distantly, we hear a dolorous soprano.
He turns back around and the firelight shows teartracks on his cheeks.
He clears his throat.
Brandt hastily pulls a flimsy sheet from his clipboard and hands it to the Dude.
Brandt tugs at the Dude's shirt and points him back to the hall.
The soprano's singing is once again faint.
Brandt's voice is hushed.
We are looking across the length of the bowling alley at a tall, thin, Hispanic bowler displaying perfect form.
He wears an all-in-one dacron-polyester stretch bowling outfit with a racing stripe down each side.
CRASH--scattered by a strike, in slow motion.
The Dude is staring off towards the bowler.
We see Quintana, in pressed jeans and a stretchy sweater, walking up a stoop in a residential neighborhood and zinging the bell.
The door swings open and a beer-swilling middle-aged man looks dully out at Quintana, who looks hesitantly up.
He slips a little black box out of his shirt pocket.
Donny has been watching Quintana.
They both look up.
Quintana, on his way out, looks down at them from the lip of the lanes.
He is holding a fancy black-and-red leather ball satchel (perhaps a Sylvia Wein).
Behind him stands his partner, O'Brien, a short fat Irishman with tufted red hair.
Quintana looks at Walter.
Jesus walks away.
Walter nods sadly.
We are looking down at the Dude who is prone on the rug.
His eyes are closed.
He wears a Walkman headset.
The Dude absently licks his lips as we faintly hear a hall rumbling down the lane.
In his outflung hand lies a cassette case labeled VENICE.
On its impact with the pins, the Dude opens his eyes.
A blonde woman looms over him.
Next to her a young man in paint-spattered denims stoops and swings something towards the carrier.
A million stars explode against a field of black.
The Dude is flying over the city, his arms thrown out in front of him, the wind whipping his hair and billowing his bowling shirt.
Ahead the mysterious blonde woman wings away, riding on the Dude's rug like a sheik on a magic carpet.
She is outpacing us, growing smaller.
He looks up.
The Dude does a couple of lazy crawl strokes and then notices that a bowling ball has materialized in his forward hand.
His bemusement turns to concern over the aerodynamic implications just as the ball seems to suddenly assume its weight, abruptly snapping his arm down, and him after it.
He is falling.
From a high angle we see the Dude hurtling down toward the city, dragged by the ball.
A reverse looking up shows the Dude hurtling toward us out of the inky sky, his eyes wide with horror.
Led by the bowling ball, he zooms past the camera leaving us in black.
Dull reflections materialize in the darkness.
They are glints off the shiny surface of an oncoming bowling ball.
We pull back to reveal that the blackness was the inside of a ball return, and the gleaming bowling ball is being regurgitated up at us, overtaking us.
The Dude looks up, up, up at the looming ball, its mass rolling a huge shadow across his face.
The gleaming ball shows three dead black holes rolling toward us--finger holes.
The largest--thumb--hole rolls directly over us, engulfing us once again in black.
The black rolls away and we are spinning--spinning down a bowling lane--our point of view that of someone trapped in the thumbhole of the rolling ball.
We see the receding bowler spinning away.
It is the blonde woman, performing her follow-through.
Floor spins up at us and then away; ceiling spins up and away; the length of the alley with pins at the end; floor; ceiling; approaching pins; again and again.
We hit the pins and clatter into blackness.
We see pins spin, hit each other and drop.
They come from the Dude's Walkman, the headset of which is now askew, with one arm off his ear.
As the picture fades in the bowling noises continue, but filtered and faint.
We are close on the Dude, upside down.
As the Dude opens his eyes we spiral slowly upward to put him right side around.
His head is now resting against hardwood floor, not rug.
The rug is gone.
We push Brandt down the familiar marble hallway.
We pan off the Dude, driving, to his point of view through the front windshield.
The headlights play over Walter standing waiting in front of the storefront of SOBCHAK SECURITY.
Though he is wearing khaki shorts and shirt, the fact that he holds a battered brown briefcase makes him look oddly like a commuter.
He also holds an irregular shape bundled in brown wrapping paper.
The car stops in front of him and he opens the Dude's door and hands in the briefcase.
The Dude takes the briefcase and slides over.
He raises himself onto his elbows and massages the red lump on his jaw.
The Dude unclips the phone from the battery pack.
The Dude glares at Walter.
Walter stares dumbly for a beat.
The Dude is twisting around to pull the money briefcase from the back seat.
Walter reaches one arm across Dude's body to grab the laundry.
There is the bump and new steady of the car on the bridge.
He flings it out the window.
Walter points across the seat at the paper-wrapped bundle.
Walter has flung open his door and is leaning halfway out over the road.
Walter rolls out with his parcel, giving a loud grunt as he hits the pavement.
The car swerves and lurches and the Dude, cursing, takes the wheel.
Walter tumbles onto the shoulder and--RAT-TAT-TAT-TAT!--muzzle flashes tear open the wrapping paper.
The car rocks and the Dude wrestles with the wheel.
The car clunks and screams around in a skid.
The Dude is thrown forward as the car hits something.
As the Dude struggles out holding the satchel of money.
The Dude runs up the road toward the bridge, frantically waving the satchel in the air.
WALTER is just rising from the ground massaging an injured knee.
The Dude and Walter stand in the middle of the road, watching the three red tail lights fishtail away.
He turns from the lane to where the Dude sits in the nook of molded plastic chairs.
The Dude listlessly holds the portable phone in his lap.
Donny is trotting excitedly up.
The Dude gets to his feet with the portable phone.
He waves both arms as if conducting a symphony orchestra.
The three bowlers, stopped at the edge of the lot, stare out at an empty parking space.
The Dude walks away across the lot.
Facing him on the couch are two uniformed policeman, one middle-aged, the other a fresh-faced rookie.
The Dude is slumped disconsolately back in his easy chair, fingers of one hand cupped over his sunglasses.
At the cut the portable phone, in the Dude's lap, is chirping.
The Dude waits for the rings to end.
loft.
A huge unfinished canvas, lit by standing industrial lights, dominates one wall.
The Dude, standing in the middle of the loft, looks into the murky depths of the cavernous space.
The Dude turns again as he hears running footsteps.
Something huge and white hurtles towards the Dude's head.
As it roars overhead he ducks, and spins to watch it pass.
We see the backside of a naked woman in a sling suspended from a ceiling track rumbling over a canvas that lies on the floor.
She is holding a paint bucket in one hand and a brush in the other, with which she flicks paint down at the canvas.
Two young men in paint-spattered shorts, T-shirts and sneakers reach the sling shortly after it reaches the end of its track and haul it back for another push.
The furnishings are spare given the space.
On the floor is the Dude's brilliant rug.
She is aiming a remote at a projection TV.
The screen flickers to life.
On the TV screen the door opens to reveal a sallow-faced man in blue cover-alls.
It is Dieter, the floater in Lebowski's pool.
The Dude is at the bar, a bottle of kalhua frozen halfway to his glass.
The Dude sits in back holding a White Russian, listening to the chauffeur, a man of about the same age from whose livery cap a ponytail emerges.
He takes a sip of a freshly-mixed White Russian, which leaves milk on his mustache.
I was feeling really shitty earlier in the day, I'd lost a little money, I was down in the dumps.
The limo has rolled to a stop.
The Dude gets out, still holding his drink.
His eyes on the rearview mirror, Tony jerks a thumb over his shoulder.
The Dude turns to look.
He scowls.
Halfway up the block a Volkswagon bug has pulled over to the curb.
In the driver's seat we see a fat man's shape.
The Dude is grabbed from behind and muscled away in a half- nelson by another uniformed chauffeur.
As he is frog-marched towards another limo the Dude holds his drink away from his chest and cups a hand underneath it.
The waiting limo's back door is flung open.
The Dude is shoved in and awkwardly takes a seat facing the rear.
Brandt sits catty-corner from the Dude; directly across from the Dude is the big Lebowski, a comforter across his knees.
Lebowski stares at him, dumbstruck.
The Dude is encouraged.
The Dude takes a hurried sip from his drink.
Brandt is handing him a letter-sized envelope which is distended by something inside.
The Dude, frowning, untucks its flap, takes out some cotton wadding and unrolls it.
The wadding, undone, reveals a smaller wad of gauze taped up inside.
The Dude undoes the tape with his fingernails and starts to unroll the inner package.
Between thumb and forefinger the Dude holds up the contents of the package--a little toe, with emerald green nail polish.
The Dude and Walter sit at the counter, both staring off into space, both absently stirring their coffee with little clinking noises.
A waitress enters.
The Dude has left frame; Walter calls after him.
He looks defiantly around.
A dripping noise.
The Dude sits in the bathtub, staring stuporously, a joint pinched in one hand, a washcloth draped over his head.
The Dude is staring at his toes, which protrude from the soapy water, splayed against the far side of the tub.
After the Dude's outgoing message we hear.
The Dude looks stuporously up, his head swaying.
One of them holds a string at the other end of which a small animal skitters excitedly about the floor.
Two other men are entering behind him.
The Dude looks curiously at the small, nattering animal.
The man with the string scoops up the marmot and tosses it, screaming, into the bathtub.
The Dude screams.
The marmot splashes frantically, biting at the Dude in a frenzy of fearful aggression.
The three men turn to leave.
They have reached the Dude's car.
The driver's side exterior has been scraped raw.
The policeman hands the Dude a door handle and an exterior rear-view mirror.
The policeman laughs, agreeing broadly.
The Dude looks sadly through his window at the policeman rocking back on his heels, his raucous laughter muffled by the glass.
The Dude, Walter and Donny sit at the bar, the Dude with a White Russian, Walter with a beer, and Donny eating beer nuts.
Walter sadly shakes his head.
They leave the Dude sitting morosely at the bar.
As he stares.
He is middle-aged, amiable, craggily handsome--Sam Elliot, perhaps.
He has a large Western-style mustache and wears denims, a yoked shirt and a cowboy hat.
We recognize the voice of The Stranger whose narration opened the movie.
The Stranger nods.
Waiting for his drink, he looks amiably around the bar.
His crinkled eyes settle on the Dude.
The Dude, still staring down at his drink, shakes his head.
The Dude looks at The Stranger as if just now noticing how out of place the cowpoke is.
The Stranger chuckles indulgently and pushes off from the bar.
He is gone.
She strides toward us, naked under a robe which she is just cinching shut.
The Dude stops between two albums.
The Dude pulls out an album with a worn sleeve.
On it is the group's name, Autobahn, the album name, Nagelbett, and a picture of three young germans, their foreheads looming below slicked-back hair, gazing upward in thin-lipped epiphany.
They are wearing severe but modishly retro suits.
A bed of nails is the only set dressing on the cover.
The Dude and Walter are pulling up in front of a dilapidated house sitting on a scrubby lot.
Parked incongruously in front of the house is a brand new red Corvette.
It is opened by a matronly Spanish woman.
Larry, a fifteen-year- old, looks at the two men.
Walter pops the latches on his attache case and takes out the homework, which is now in a ziploc bag.
He holds it out at arm's length, displaying it to Larry.
Walter is still holding out the homework.
Throughout Walter has been staring at Larry with the homework extended towards him.
As he shoves the homework back in the attache case.
He is heading for the door.
Walter is striding down the lawn with his attache case like an enraged encyclopedia salesman.
Without looking back at, the Dude, who follows.
He pops the Dude's trunk, flings in the briefcase and takes out a tire iron.
CRASH! He swings the crowbar into the windshield, which shatters.
CRASH! He takes out the driver's window.
Lights are going on in houses down the street.
A man in a sleeveless T-shirt and boxer shorts has run over behind Walter and grabbed him from behind on a backswing of the crowbar.
He wrestles the crowbar away from the startled Walter.
He finishes hammering, rises and grabs a straightbacked chair that stands nearby.
When the door is opened--outwards, The chair clatters to the floor.
Out of the blackness something is falling toward us.
It is a woman, falling in slow motion, her limbs flailing, her mouth contorted by either fear or ecstasy.
She is topless.
She falls past the camera, leaving blackness, then after a beat reappears, rising into the night sky.
A crowd of mostly tanned middle-aged men with blow-dried hair, wearing jogging outfits and other expensively casual attire, are blanket-tossing the squealing young woman in nightmarish slow motion.
It is a party, lit by festive beach lights and standing kerosene heaters.
A man walks towards the camera through the pools of beach light.
He is handsome, fiftyish, wearing cotton twill pants and a Turnbull & Asher shirt with a foulard knotted at the neck.
Behind him, the woman rises and falls, appears and disappears.
The Dude is looking around at the '60's modern decor.
He hands him the drink.
He taps his forehead with one finger.
Treehorn waves this off.
He is getting to his feet, but sways woozily.
He is joined on either side by Woo and the blond man, all three men looking grimly down at the Dude.
He tips forward, spilling his drink off the table.
He squints at Jackie Treehorn, who swims in and out of focus.
Tied the room together.
Looking up at the Dude as his face hits the glass and squishes.
The title logo is a suggestively upright bowling pin flanked by a pair of bowling balls.
The Dude's face is washed with a brilliant light as the corridor opens onto a gleaming bowling alley.
In the center of the alley stands Maude Lebowski, singing operatic harmony to the Kenny Rogers song.
She wears an armored breastplate and Norse headgear, has braided pigtails, and holds a trident.
The Dude stands behind her and, pressed up against her, helps her with her follow-through as she releases a bowling ball.
The lane is straddled by a line of chorines in spangly mini- skirts, their arms akimbo, Busby-Berkley style, their legs turning the lane into a tunnel leading to the pins at the end.
But it is no longer a bowling ball rolling between their legs--it is the Dude himself, levitating inches off the lane, the tools from his utility belt swinging free.
He is face down, his arms, torpedolike, pressed against his sides.
The Dude twists his body around, performing a barrel-roll so that he is now gliding along the lane face-up.
Now his point of view looks up the dresses of the passing chorines.
The Dude smiles dreamily and does a backstroke motion so that he is once again gliding face-down.
He looks forward and his forward momentum blows back his hair.
Coming at us, as we go through the last few pairs of legs, are the approaching pins.
We hit the pins, scattering them, and rush on into black.
A body drops down into the blackness in slow motion--a topless woman, squealing, her legs kicking.
As she drops out of frame, leaving blackness again, three men are entering from the background, emerging into a pool of light.
It is the Germans, advancing ominously, wielding oversized shears which they menacingly scissor.
The Dude, now standing in a field of black, reacts to the advancing Germans.
He turns and runs, fists pumping.
The field of black is punctured by headlights.
The Dude is running blearily down the middle of the Pacific Coast Highway.
Cars rush by on either side, horns blaring.
With the BLOO-WHUP of a short siren blast, a squad car with flashing gumballs pulls up.
The Dude is hurled against the chief's desk, which he bounces off of, to come to rest more or less seated in a facing chair.
His wallet is tossed onto the desk.
The chief leans forward, takes the wallet and sorts through it with disgusted incredulity.
He is looking at the Ralph's Shopper's Club card.
The Dude stares.
The Chief hurls his steaming mug of coffee at the Dude.
It hits him in the forehead with a thud, the scalding coffee splashing everywhere.
The Chief is already up off his chair, rounding the desk.
He kicks the chair out from under the Dude, and then starts kicking at him.
The Dude, in the back seat of a taxicab that rocks and squeaks with every bump, is gingerly touching at sore spots on his face and scalp.
The back of the driver, a large black man with rasta dreds under a knit cap.
The place is a wreck.
Furniture has been overturned, upholstery slashed, drawers dumped.
Quiet.
Maude emerges from the bedroom.
She is wearing a bathrobe.
She pulls open the bathrobe as she approaches.
The Dude is stupefied.
A match is dragged across a headboard; the Dude is lighting himself a joint.
He climbs out of bed but Maude remains in it.
She wedges a pillow into the small of her back and clasps a hand on each kneecap.
She pulls her knees in toward her chest to keep her pelvis raised.
He picks a White Russian off the bedside table.
The Dude spits some White Russian.
The Dude is staring off into space, thinking.
The Dude is leaving the bedroom.
The man nervously complies.
The Dude flinches at the man's movement as he gets out.
The man cringes, reacting to the Dude's flinch.
He is wearing a cheap blue serge suit.
He is bald with a short fringe and a mustache.
The Dude shouts to cover his fear.
The Dude is stunned.
He is fumbling in his wallet.
The Dude looks at the picture.
It is probably a school portrait, unmistakably Bunny, but fresh-faced, much younger looking, with a corn-fed smile and straight Partridge Family hair and bangs.
He is holding out another picture.
A bleak farmhouse and silo are the only features on a flat snow-swept landscape.
He hands back the picture.
The Dude steps out to meet Walter's car as it pulls up, its passenger window open and the pomeranian leaning out and yapping.
Four people sit at a booth: Dieter, Kieffer, Franz, all in black leather, and a young woman with long stringy blonde hair, wearing torn and patched jeans and a ribbed sleeveless tee-shirt, worn thin with age.
A waitress enters with a checkpad and pen.
They seem very unhappy.
The woman speaks to Dieter in German.
She is apparently braless, and is teutonically pale with birthmarks on her face and arms.
Notable is her camera-side leg, which ends in a bandage- swaddled foot.
Dried rust-colored blood stains the tip of the bandage.
Walter's eyes are on the road as he listens, driving, to the Dude, whose speech is occasionally punctuated by yaps from the back seat.
He is looking off as the car slows.
The Dude looks where Walter is looking.
Walter's car pulls up the drive into the foreground and he and the Dude get out.
Both are gaping off at the front lawn.
BANG--the Dude and Walter push through the double doors into.
His wheelchair hums as he spins it around.
He is crossing to Lebowski.
Walter reaches around from behind and hoists the big Lebowski out of the wheelchair by his armpits.
He shoves the big Lebowski forward and he crumples to the floor, weeping.
The Dude and Walter look.
The dog yaps.
Quintana is bellowing from the lip of the lane, and is restrained by O'Brien.
Walter looks at him innocently.
He makes hip-grinding coital motions as O'Brien leads him away.
Walter, his head cocked, and the Dude, peeking over his shades, watch him go.
Donny, Walter and the Dude emerge from the alley, each holding his leatherette ball satchel.
The men in black, stunned, confer amongst themselves in German.
The Germans stop conferring.
Walter ignores the Dude, addresses the Germans.
The Germans confer again, in German.
Donny is visibly frightened.
Walter's eyes, burning with hatred, are locked on Dieter's.
The Dude is digging into his pocket.
Louder, to the Germans, as he looks in his wallet.
With a ring of steel, Dieter produces a glinting saber.
hurls his leather satchel.
The bowling ball thuds into his chest and lifts him off his feet.
In a rage, Dieter charges.
Watching Dieter's charge, is caught off-guard.
Dieter drops it.
twists away as Dieter reaches him; grabs Dieter's head in both hands;
raws Dieter's head up to his mouth, which closes on Dieter's ear.
He rushes Franz but draws up short as Franz sends out karate kicks, his leather pants squeaking and popping.
His jaw is still clamped on Dieter's ear.
Awkwardly circling, evading Franz's kicks.
still worrying the ear.
With a tearing sound his head and Dieter's separate.
Growling as Dieter screams, he worries his ear, waggling his head with his jaws clamped.
Franz gives a loud cry with each kick; the Dude leans back, throwing his arms up, evading the kicks.
The Dude, also panting, rises and trots over.
Donny gasps for air.
The Dude runs into the lanes.
Walter lays a reassuring hand on Donny's shoulder.
They sit side by side, forearms on knees, in a nondescript waiting area.
They sit.
They wait.
A tall thin man in a conservative black suit enters.
He eyes the Dude's bowling attire and sunglasses and Walter's army surplus, but doesn't make an issue of it.
He is vaguely handing a large leather folder across the desk to whomever wants to take it.
He takes it, opens it, puts on reading glasses that sit halfway down his nose, and inspects the bill with his head pulled back for focus and cocked for concentration.
It is a high, wind-swept bluff.
Walter and the Dude walk towards the lip of the bluff.
Walter is carrying a bright red coffee can with a blue plastic lid.
When they reach the edge the two men stand awkwardly for a beat.
Walter is peeling the plastic lid off the coffee can.
The wind has blown all of the ashes into the Dude, standing just to the side of and behind Walter.
The Dude stands, frozen.
Finished eulogizing, Walter looks back.
He starts brushing off the Dude with his hands.
Heretofore motionless, the Dude finally explodes, slapping Walter's hands away.
The Dude is near tears.
The Dude gives Walter a furious shove.
The Dude walks up to the bar.
The Stranger's eyes crinkle merrily.
Gazing after him, The Stranger drawls, savoring the words.
He gives his head a shake of appreciation, then looks into the camera.
He brushes his hat brim with a fingertip as we begin to pull back.
As we pull away The Stranger swivels in to the bar.
As his voice fades.
He puts his arm around her and drags her on.
He comes to a small canvas tent with a sign on it - TOILET.
He holds her hand.
Jody walks inside the canvas flap and vanishes from sight.
We can still see his hand, holding Jude's.
She leans against the canvas, looking bored.
She stands there, listening to the sound of him urinate.
Her eyes flick around the carnival.
They settle on a tall dark- haired man in a dark jacket.
He nods.
He staggers out, buttoning up.
He goes to kiss her.
She turns her head away.
She pulls him over toward the water.
Jody follows her, as she walks backward, drawing him on.
He moves his hips to a song as Jude leads him over the beach, under a train trestle.
He sinks down on his knees toward her.
She wraps her arms around his neck and kisses him.
Jody writhes on top of her, fumbling with his belt.
Jude cocks one eye upward.
A shadow falls across them.
A gun is put to his head.
He turns around, drunkenly.
The gun whacks him across the cheek and he falls sideways.
Jude scrambles to her feet and darts like an animal through a field.
Jody feels his cheek.
He can see her blond head vanishing among the fields.
He looks up and sees a group of men around him.
The tallest of them, Fergus, cocks the gun.
A mini, driving down a country road.
Two men in the front, three in the back.
On the floor of the car Jody lies, with three pairs of feet on top of him, a black bag over his head and the barrel of a gun dangling close to his face.
Fergus holds the gun.
He is smoking a cigarette.
His movements are slow and somewhat innocent.
Jody pulled through and tied to a chair.
Maguire, a small lean man, talks to him through the hood.
Jody is motionless under the black hood.
All the men are drinking tea.
The blond woman comes in with a plate and some food on it.
Jody sits as still as a grave, saying nothing.
Fergus is sitting by a chair, gun in his hand, watching the prisoner.
Jude comes in, with a flashlight.
She moves over to him.
She prods him in the legs with her foot.
Then she lifts the hood ever so slightly, to peer inside.
Suddenly the man moves like lightning, jerking his head down so the hood comes off, throwing his body, tied to the chair, over Jude.
He pins her to the ground, his body bent with the chair.
He writhes on top of her in a grotesque parody of love.
She is screaming and the room is alive, each man awake, grabbing guns, screaming.
She takes in huge gobs of air.
She rubs her hand on his chest.
She sidles closer, coming on to him.
Fergus walks over to him, lifts the hood up so his mouth is revealed, and pushes the sandwich toward his lips.
Jody eats, slowly.
Fergus pushes the last crumbs of the sandwich toward Jody's mouth.
Jody eats the last bits.
Jude makes her way from the door toward the greenhouse.
She is carrying a pot of tea and two cups.
It is sweltering now in the greenhouse.
The hood is drenched with sweat.
Jude comes into view.
Lays the tea on the ground.
His breathing becomes labored.
Fergus gives her the gun.
Jody's head follows Fergus while he leaves.
Jude smiles, holding the gun on her lap.
Fergus enters.
Maguire has a newspaper, which has a headline regarding the kidnapping.
Jude, drinking tea, looking at Jody sweating.
Fergus enters.
She goes.
Fergus walks to Jody and slowly takes the hood off.
Jody looks up at him, his face bathed in sweat.
He breathes in mighty gulps of air.
He smiles.
Fergus smiles.
Fergus pours out a cup of tea and brings it to his lips.
Fergus drinks.
Fergus looks at him.
Jody isn't smiling anymore.
Fergus goes back to his seat and drinks his tea.
He fingers the gun on his lap.
He looks at Fergus.
Fergus holds the gun to his face.
He fishes inside Jody's inside pocket.
Fergus's hand emerges with a wallet.
Credit cards, army identification photograph.
Fergus takes out a picture.
It is of Jody, in cricket whites, smiling, holding a bat.
Fergus smiles.
Fergus takes out another picture of Jody and of a beautiful black woman, smiling.
Jody chuckles.
Fergus looks at him.
He keeps looking at him.
Jody smiles.
Fergus leads Jody outside, holding the gun against him.
He walks toward it, breathing heavily.
Fergus, in the dark, stands motionless, looking at him.
Fergus turns him around and unzips his fly.
Jody takes two steps toward the wall.
Fergus holds his hands from behind, so Jody can lean forward.
Jody now pisses with immense relief.
He shakes his body.
He steps back.
Fergus leads him hack toward the greenhouse.
Fergus leads Jody back to his chair.
He begins to laugh.
Fergus begins to laugh, without knowing why.
Maguire, walking out of the house, woken by the sound of laughter.
Jody, still laughing.
Suddenly the hood is slammed back over his head.
Maguire, standing there in the dark, looking at Fergus.
Fergus gets up slowly, walks toward the door.
Maguire sitting with an Armalite in his hands, watching him.
The sun coming up over the low hills around the farmhouse.
Fergus enters, with a tray and some breakfast.
Maguire is sitting where he sat before, stock-still.
Maguire shakes his head.
Maguire shakes his head.
Maguire looks hard at him.
He rises, and drags Fergus out the door.
Maguire goes back to the house.
Jody sitting with the hood on again.
Fergus enters.
Fergus says nothing.
He takes a plate and brings it toward Jody.
Fergus lifts up Jody's hood to expose his mouth and begins to feed him.
Fergus says nothing and keeps feeding him.
Fergus shakes his head and says nothing.
He eats.
Fergus feeds himself, then feeds more to Jody.
Fergus says nothing.
Jody chuckles under his hood.
Fergus walks toward him and pulls off the hood.
Jody smiles up at him.
Fergus laughs.
She pulls the hood down over him.
She whacks him with a pistol.
Fergus lifts it a bit; Jody's mouth, with blood now in his lips.
Fergus is moved.
Fergus walks toward him.
Their faces, close to each other as Fergus searches out her picture.
The door opens.
Maguire is there, with another.
Fergus turns toward him.
Fergus walks toward Maguire and the other man walks forward, takes his seat.
Maguire, Jude, Fergus, and the others.
Maguire lights a cigarette.
Fergus looks at him and nods.
He turns back to Fergus.
Fergus leaves.
Fergus takes his place in the chair beside Jody.
Jody begins to laugh under the hood.
Fergus takes out a cigarette, lights it, and lifts up Jody's hood so he can smoke.
Fergus watches him puff the cigarette, the hood just above his lips.
Jody coughs, but keeps the cigarette in his lips.
Fergus gently takes the cigarette from his mouth.
Fergus is silent; his eyes wet.
The farmhouse covered in mist.
Maguire opens the door to the greenhouse and clicks the chamber of his gun.
Fergus has a gun in his hand.
Fergus takes Jody, whose hands are still tied behind his back, by the elbow.
Jody rises.
Fergus leads him through the door, past Maguire.
Fergus turns with sudden fierceness.
He pulls Jody through the fields.
Fergus pushing Jody through a copse of trees, the gun at his back.
Fergus pulls the hood off.
Jody looks around him.
He has a cut lip where Jude struck him.
Fergus prods him on with the gun.
Jody stumbles forward.
Fergus is all cold and businesslike.
Jody suddenly sprints, and, loosening the ties on his hands, then freeing them, he is off like a hare.
Fergus screams in fury after him.
Fergus aims, then changes his mind and runs.
Fergus gains on him--stretches his arm out--but Jody sprints ahead again--as if he has been playing with him.
He laughs in exhilaration.
Fergus pants behind him, wheezing, almost laughing.
Jody runs, whipping through the trees--always ahead of him.
The old man pouring whiskey into a teacup.
He pours Fergus more whiskey.
The ferry, churning into the sunset.
FADE UP into an elegant, empty Georgian room, covered in clouds of dust.
A figure among the clouds of dust, hacking at a wall with a sledgehammer.
It is Fergus, dressed in laborer's overalls, covered in dust.
He is knocking the bricks from an outer wall.
He works furiously and relentlessly, like a machine.
We see the wall, with the hammer striking it.
One brick falls away, then another.
Daylight pours through the clouds of dust and the growing hole.
More bricks falling away.
Through the clouds of dust and the streams of daylight we now see a patch of green.
His rhythm slows.
More bricks fall away.
Then the hammer stops.
The dust begins to clear.
The dust drifts across it, revealing a cricket pitch, with tiny sticklike figures running on the green.
Fergus, returning from work, crosses the street, and enters through a white door.
Fergus dressing.
He puts on a cheap suit, like any country boy in a big city.
He takes Jody's wallet from the trousers of his overalls.
He flips it open, sees the picture of the soldier and Dil.
He puts it in the pocket of his suit.
Fergus walking down a street looking for an address.
Some distance down the street is a sign -- MILLIE'S UNISEX HAIR.
Fergus, standing as the crowds go by him, looking in the window.
He has the picture in his hand.
We see Dil from his point of view, then Fergus walks inside.
Fergus enters.
She leaves the salon.
Dil checks her watch and stubs out a cigarette.
She comes toward him and fiddles with his hair.
She pushes his head back into a basin behind him.
She begins to knead his hair in hot water and shampoo.
The hands with the purple nails run over his scalp.
Fergus, sitting up.
She begins to cut.
She imitates his accent saying it.
Fergus laughs.
Dil raises Fergus's head up, with his new-cut hair and holds a mirror up behind his head so he can see the back.
He looks like a young London stockbroker.
He walks off through the crowds and then ducks into a doorway.
Dil comes out, dressed in a pair of high heels, a very short skirt, different, more raunchy clothes on her than we saw inside.
She locks the glass door and walks down the street, across the road, and into a pub called the Metro.
Fergus follows.
Dil makes her way through it.
She sits down at the bar.
Fergus comes toward the bar and takes a seat.
Dil, looking at Fergus.
Fergus blushes.
He buries himself in his drink.
Fergus throws his eyes toward her again.
She has her face turned away, but sees him in the mirror.
She eyes Fergus in the mirror.
The barman, with infinite weariness, approaches Fergus.
Fergus is about to talk when she pipes up.
The barman mixes it.
She stares at the mirror, staring at Fergus, who is trying to avoid her eyes.
The barman hands her the drink.
A burly man sits down beside her.
She slaps the hand away.
She turns back to Fergus and finds his seat empty.
Fergus, standing across the road from the pub.
He is sweating.
Dil comes out of the pub.
She looks this way and that, as if searching for Fergus.
Fergus stands back into a shadow.
Dave, the burly man, comes out.
He grabs her by the elbow.
She walks off.
Dave follows, grabs her by the elbow again.
Dave walking, holding Dil by the arm.
The street is dilapidated, full of squats.
They stop outside a door.
Dil opens the door with a key from her purse and they both walk inside.
Fergus stands there, observing.
A light comes on in an upstairs room.
Dil enters; we see her shadow in silhouette behind the curtain and the shadow of Dave coming in behind her.
He begins to remove her blouse.
She stands absolutely still as he does so.
Fergus, in bed.
Fade to black as we see Jody as a bowler, running in slow motion, toward the camera.
He releases the ball; we see Fergus in bed, breathing heavily.
Fergus takes a break and watches the batsman hit a ball.
He imitates the batsman's motion with his sledgehammer.
Then a voice interrupts him.
Fergus turns.
We see Tristram Deveroux, a young Sloane type in a three-piece suit, whose house it is.
Beside him is Franknum, the cockney foreman.
Fergus resumes work.
It is now crowded with people, black, white, punky and street chic, a lot of leather.
All the women are heavily made-up.
From the way Fergus walks through, it is obvious he has never been here at night.
He seems most out of place in his cheap suit, making his way through the crowd to the bar.
Col, the barman, sees him and smiles.
Col pushes a colored cocktail with one of those Japanese umbrellas toward him.
Fergus reaches for his wallet to pay, but Col interrupts.
Fergus tries to pretend he's familiar with the drink, and by implication, whatever are the norms of the place.
He lifts the glass to his mouth, but the umbrella keeps getting in the way.
Fergus takes out the umbrella.
He holds it in one hand and drinks with the other.
Fergus shrugs.
She looks at Fergus directly, sits down next to him.
Fergus says nothing.
He shrugs.
The burly man comes up to her.
He suddenly jerks her roughly off the stool, spilling her drink.
He drags her through the crowd.
The barman eyes him.
Fergus suddenly stands and makes his way to the door.
Fergus comes out.
He walks a few yards and hears voices down an alley.
He looks up it.
We see Dil pushing Dave away.
He grabs her, turns her roughly.
She beats his arms away.
She staggers away from him.
They both bump into Fergus, who just stands there and doesn't move an inch.
She smiles.
He holds it up to show her.
Dave eyes Fergus.
Fergus grabs his wrists and upends him on the ground.
Fergus puts his foot on Dave's neck.
Fergus presses down his foot.
He looks to Dil.
Fergus presses his foot.
She bends low to Dave.
But his voice is softer.
Fergus removes his foot.
Dil grabs his arm.
She draws him away.
They walk out of the alley.
Fergus looks back.
Dave is rising.
Fergus and Dil climb slowly upstairs.
There is a movement lower down the staircase.
We see Dave, holding his neck.
Dil leans close to Fergus.
She tilts up her face.
Fergus kisses her, tenderly.
She goes in and closes the door.
Fergus stands and looks down at Dave, who turns to leave.
Dil walks out of the salon, smiling, and walks toward Fergus.
Fergus takes a bunch of flowers from behind his back.
She holds them, with theatrical feeling.
She laughs and leans toward him and kisses him in a classically old-fashioned way.
The girls inside the salon pull back a curtain, and they all clap.
She takes his arm and walks off with him.
Fergus and Dil looking at their menus.
A waiter places drinks on their table, then leaves.
They are walking in an alleyway toward her house.
And suddenly a car drives very fast toward them, headlights on.
Fergus pulls her into a doorway to avoid it.
The car continues down the road, stops, and then screeches off.
She looks down toward where the car has pulled away.
A car pulls up behind Dil and Fergus.
She touches his cheek.
Dil comes in in the darkness.
Fergus stands like a shadow in the doorway.
The light comes on; she takes off her raincoat.
Fergus enters slowly.
He looks around the room; there is an exaggerated femininity about everything in it.
Fergus looks at the mantelpiece and sees a picture of Jody.
The camera tracks into the soldier's smiling face.
His reverie is broken by the sound of a voice outside--Dave's.
She opens the window door, and we see Dave on the street, in a neck brace.
She goes back into the room and begins taking things up.
She flings things down: men's clothes, leather trousers, a suitcase, a teddy bear.
Fergus looks to the man down in the street, a parody of rejection with his things in his arms.
Dil grabs a large goldfish bowl and flings it down.
The bowl breaks to bits on the pavement.
Goldfish thrash around in the street.
Upstairs, Dil closes the window shut.
Fergus stands as Dil hands him a glass.
Fergus walks past the photograph and sits down.
He looks from her to the picture.
He nods toward the picture.
She looks down into her drink.
And they fall into one another's arms.
She stretches up with her whole body over him.
They grow suddenly and violently passionate.
The photograph above them seems to smile.
He draws up her dress with his hands.
She suddenly pulls away.
She comes up toward him once more.
She opens the buttons on his shirt and her mouth travels down his chest.
Fergus tries to draw her up toward him, but her hand reaches up to his mouth and presses his head back while her other hand undoes his pants.
She kisses his stomach; her mouth moves down his body.
Fergus stares at the picture of Jody.
Jody's eyes seem to burn through him.
Dil raises her head and kisses his mouth.
There are tears in his eyes.
She sits in front of the mirror.
Fergus gets up and stands behind her, gently pushes the hair from her face.
She embraces him.
She sits back down in front of the mirror.
Fergus leaves.
She reapplies her lipstick.
Singer in a blue dress.
Dil and Fergus by the bar.
Both drinking drinks with umbrellas.
Dave comes up behind them with his neck brace.
He stands.
Dave steps two feet back.
Fergus takes Dil's arm.
The woman is singing.
Dil holds her cheek close to his.
Looks at him out of the corner of her eye.
She draws back and looks at him.
She dances closer.
In the bar, people singing along with the music.
Col sings.
Dave sitting at the bar, sulking.
She puts her cheek against his.
Dave, at the bar, slams his drink down.
Dave stands up to leave.
On the stage the act finishes.
Dil draws Fergus back to the bar.
Col, the barman, pours her drink.
Col pours and smiles.
He drinks.
He grimaces.
She throws it back in one.
She takes the bottle herself and fills their glasses.
She slams it back.
He sips.
She tilts his glass back.
He swallows it in one.
She enters; Fergus walks in slowly.
He looks from the cricket whites that are hanging up behind a curtain to the photographs.
She turns toward him and undoes her hair.
It falls around her shoulders.
Fergus runs his hand down her throat.
She draws him behind a curtain toward the bed, pulls him down.
They kiss passionately.
She walks into the bathroom.
Fergus lies there, looking at the picture, listening to the sound of running water.
She comes out then, dressed in a silk kimono.
She looks extraordinarily beautiful.
He draws her toward him.
He begins to kiss her face and neck.
She murmurs no.
His hands slip the wrap down from her shoulders.
Then the hands stop.
The kimono falls to the floor gently, with a whisper.
The camera travels with it, and we see, in a close-up, that she is a man.
Fergus sits there, frozen, staring at her.
Fergus says nothing.
She gives a strange little laugh, then reaches out to touch him.
Fergus smacks the hand away.
He gets up and runs to the bathroom.
She grabs his feet.
He kicks her away.
He runs into the bathroom and vomits into the tub.
She lights a cigarette.
Fergus slams the door shut.
She is sitting on the couch, the kimono round her once more, looking very much like a woman.
A trace of blood on her mouth.
Fergus comes out of the bathroom.
She looks up.
Some hope in her face.
And he makes to go.
She grabs him to stop him.
He pulls away from her.
She falls to the floor.
Fergus sits.
Col turns to him.
Fergus touches her arm.
She whips her arm away.
She walks into the crowd, toward the door.
Fergus leaves.
Fergus, walking outside Dil's place.
The blinds in her room are down and the light is on inside.
We see her outline, pacing up and down behind the blinds, smoking a cigarette.
A man removes a large number six from a huge scoreboard with a pole and replaces it with a number nine.
Below the scoreboard we can see Dil walking across a lawn toward the building where Fergus is working.
Fergus, fitting a new window into the finished wall.
On the pitch we see the cricketers, distorted through the moving glass of the window.
Across the pitch Dil walks, with a lunch basket in her hand, dressed in a very short skirt with high heels.
As she approaches the site a chorus of whistles breaks out.
Fergus, hearing the whistling, stares out.
He sees Dil moving toward the site.
He drops the window and the glass shatters.
As the whistles continue, we see Dil in the site's lift, which rises up.
We see Deveroux and Franknum climbing up a ladder toward Fergus.
Through this conversation Fergus can hear the chorus of wolf whistles increasing.
He looks out the gap where the window should be and sees Dil in the lift.
She passes by a gap in the wall and blows a kiss at him.
Fergus walks out of the room.
Fergus walks round the scaffolding.
Dil sees him and waves, sits on some bricks and opens the hamper.
Fergus smiles in spite of himself.
She takes out a thermos and pours him some tea.
She lowers her head.
He removes her glasses and looks at her moist eyes.
Fergus stands up suddenly.
Deveroux stares, suddenly chilled.
Fergus looks down to Dil.
He holds out his arm.
Dil gathers up her things and takes it.
Her face is wreathed in a smile.
Fergus walks her down the scaffolding ramp.
Dil and Fergus descend from the site in the lift.
The lift stops with a thud.
She leans forward and kisses him.
Fergus hears a wail of catcalls behind him.
He watches Dil go as the lift takes him back up to the site.
Fergus, outside the hair salon.
Dil, inside, is throwing off her smock and walking toward him.
All the girls are smiling.
Fergus looks from Dil to the girls as they approach.
She takes his arm as they walk off.
Fergus hears a car following them, and turns around to look.
They reach her door.
The car stops.
Fergus kisses her.
He looks at her open lips as if in disbelief at himself.
She goes inside.
Fergus walks into the room and turns on a small desk-light.
Then he hears a voice.
He sees Jude sitting in the corner.
Her hair is now dark brown.
He stares at her, says nothing.
She walks round the room.
She lies down on the bed beside him, takes off a black leather glove, and puts her hand on his crotch.
He takes her hand away.
She looks at him hard.
He leaps up from the bed.
She brings her lips close to his so they touch.
He grabs her hair and pulls her head back.
She pulls a gun and sticks it between his teeth.
Fergus stares at her.
Then says quietly.
She kisses him briefly, with the gun at his temple.
She goes.
Fergus stands in the darkness.
Fergus, walking toward the hair salon, flowers in his hand.
He stands outside watching, the flowers behind his back.
Then the chair turns and we see it is Jude.
Fergus freezes.
He sees Jude looking at him, smiling brightly, then talking back to Dil.
Jude, turning in the chair.
She smiles brightly at something behind Fergus.
He turns and sees Jude is there.
Fergus stands, suddenly.
He throws some money on the table, grabs her arm, and frog- marches her out.
As they pass Jude, she smiles.
Outside the restaurant.
Fergus marches Dil away.
They pass out of shot.
In the background we see Jude rising.
Dil and Fergus making their way to their seats at the bar.
A figure sitting down at the bar.
She leaves.
Dil watches her go.
She looks at Col.
There are tears in her eyes.
She stands.
She staggers out of the pub.
Fergus sits there.
There is an expression in Col's eyes that makes Fergus feel very, very small.
But Fergus rises and walks out.
Fergus looks toward it, but Jude is standing there, waiting.
Jude grabs his arm.
She draws him down an alley where the same car is waiting.
They get inside.
Dil, sitting inside a taxi watching Fergus and Jude getting in the car.
Jude is driving, Maguire next to her.
Fergus sits in the back.
Maguire stubs his cigarette out on Fergus's hand, then whacks him on the teeth with his closed fist.
Jude drives.
The car draws to a halt in a sedate square.
Several doors down is the entrance to what looks like a sedate conservative club.
In the car, Maguire turns off the engine.
He nods toward the building.
He nods toward a car, a Daimler, parked some distance away.
Fergus looks from the window to the car.
Jude turns around to look at him.
Jude and Fergus get out of the car.
They walk down the street, down from the brothel-cum-club, where there is a cafe-bar with some tables outside.
Fergus and Jude, crossing the street.
They take their seats by the tables.
We can see the brothel down the way.
She checks her watch.
Fergus is sweating.
Down by the brothel, the door swings open.
Fergus walks like any pedestrian down toward the brothel.
There is an old, portly gent in a City suit emerging from it.
The car by the pavement kicks into action and the door opens.
Fergus quickens his pace.
Jude, by the cafe, watches.
Fergus, walking.
The gent makes his way, with gout-ridden slowness, across the pavement, through the passersby, toward the car.
A burly security man emerging from the car, walking toward the old gent.
Fergus reaches the car just before he does, and passes between him and the open door.
The old gent's stomach brushes Fergus's elbow.
Fergus walks on.
Jude, from the cafe, watches--Fergus walking on, the old man being eased with painstaking care inside the Daimler.
Then the door closing and the Daimler pulling off.
When the Daimler has passed Fergus, he turns around and walks back.
Jude smiles and leaps up as he approaches.
Jude begins to walk away.
Fergus turns around to see Dil in front of the cafe.
She goes inside; he follows.
She downs a drink and motions for another.
There are tears streaming down her face.
He takes his hand and begins to wipe her face.
She sits down; he joins her.
He wipes the tears from her face with a tissue then dabs the tissue in her drink and wipes some more.
Dil's face, staring at him.
She allows herself to be led out.
Dil and Fergus walking.
Fergus stops her by the window.
They walk inside.
Dil and Fergus standing in the darkness.
He sits her down in one of the chairs.
Dil nods.
Fergus takes up a scissors to snip at her hair.
Her head leaps back.
She stares at him.
She takes a breath.
Fergus begins to cut.
CLOSE-UP ON DIL'S FACE as her hair is shorn.
Tears stream down her cheeks.
She looks in the mirror at it in the dark.
Dil enters, with her new haircut.
She goes to turn on the light.
He stops her hand.
She looks at her hand on his.
Her fingers close around his.
She brings her lips to his neck.
He lets them stay there.
His hands travel up to her blouse.
He begins to undo the buttons.
He raises her to her feet and leads her toward the bed.
She stretches languorously down on it.
She turns on the bed sexily, her face to the mattress.
She is wearing suspender-belts underneath her skirt.
But Fergus stands and walks quietly over to the wardrobe where the soldier's things are.
Dil on the bed, slowly turns.
We see Fergus from her point of view, coming toward her with Jody's white cricket shirt, glowing eerily in the dark.
Fergus draws her slowly up to a standing position.
He wraps the shirt around her.
She kisses him.
Fergus leading Dil, dressed in Jody's cricket clothes, down the street and inside.
From above, we see the figures of Fergus and Dil, sleeping on a double bed, both fully clothed.
Fergus smokes, then puts out the cigarette.
The light gradually fills the room.
Fergus wakes.
Looks at the bedside clock, and very gingerly rises, puts on his coat, and walks out.
A car pulls up at the site.
Jude gets out.
She has a satchel in her hand.
Fergus looking down a ladder-staircase at Jude.
Fergus climbs down a ladder to Jude; she hands him something from the bag.
She kisses him.
Fergus looks at her expressionlessly.
Fergus opens what Jude has given him--looking inside.
There is a gun wrapped in an oilcloth.
Fergus enters.
The room is empty.
He calls.
He runs outside.
Fergus looks up at her building, but the lights are off in her flat.
The sound of feet behind him.
He turns and sees Dil walking toward him, a bottle in her hand.
He runs toward her.
They are tussling in the darkness of the park.
He takes her arm.
Fergus and Dil, on the stairs up to Dil's flat.
Fergus looks at her.
He shakes her.
He grows alarmed.
He slaps her cheek.
She opens her eyes slowly.
He walks in holding her.
Leans her against the wall, then goes to the window to check the street outside.
She takes a large slug from a bottle of whiskey.
She points weakly to a cabinet through the open door of the bathroom.
He goes and gets the pills.
She drinks from the whiskey bottle.
She walks around the room, drinking, then sits down.
Then she looks at Fergus.
She stares straight ahead, the bottle clutched in her hands between her knees.
Fergus walks slowly toward the door.
She looks at him, standing up.
Something incredibly attractive about her.
He walks slowly toward her.
He kisses her, on the lips.
We see the photograph with the soldier's smiling face.
She seems to be in a sweet narcotic haze.
She reaches out her hand and strokes his.
Fergus sits down on the bed.
Dil is lying back on it.
She still strokes his hand.
Her voice is dreamily slurred, her eyes far away.
Dil smiles woozily.
She woozily tries to hit him round the face.
Dil raises an unsteady hand and points it at him.
He strokes her cheek.
She says very slowly and sleepily.
Her eyes close.
She falls into a deep sleep.
Fergus looks down at her, almost fondly.
They are lying on the bed together, fully clothed.
Dil wakes.
She rises very quietly and goes to his coat, thrown across a chair.
She searches through the pockets and takes out the gun.
Jude in bed.
An alarm sounds; she reaches to turn it off.
Dil takes several silk stockings out of a drawer and ties them very securely to each corner of the brass bed.
She ties them round both of Fergus's feet, very gently, so as not to wake him.
Jude, in front of a mirror, getting ready.
She ties the other and is drawing it upward when he wakes.
She jerks the silk stocking so it is secure.
Dil speaks unnaturally quietly.
Jude, fully dressed.
She takes a gun from under the bed and slips it in her handbag.
Dil crouching beside Fergus, his gun in her hand.
Fergus, staring at her.
He tries to pull on the bindings.
She stands up, still pointing the gun at Fergus.
Jude on the street.
Maguire's car pulls up rapidly and she gets inside.
He drags at his bindings.
The figure of the judge in the window.
Outline of a woman.
Jude and Maguire are in the car, parked across the street.
They look toward a paper seller.
Fergus pulls furiously at his bindings.
He drives off.
Fergus collapsed back on the bed, exhausted.
Maguire's car driving round once more.
Fergus strains and roars from the bed.
MAGUIRE'S POINT OF VIEW--the brothel door opening.
The elderly judge comes out.
The car with his security men guns up.
He grabs it from her pocket.
Throws open the door and runs across the street.
Fergus, pulling at his bindings.
The judge walking toward the open door of the car, held open by his goon.
Maguire, running toward him, gun in hand.
The goon sees him.
Maguire shoots as he runs.
The judge falls.
The goon, hit in the arm, pulls an Uzi and returns fire.
Maguire hit, still shooting.
Other goons tear from the car.
Mayhem, screaming.
Jude hits the pedal on her car and screeches off.
Maguire, dead.
Dil dressed in the soldier's cricket clothes.
She looks like a sweet little boy.
She comes to the bed, and points the gun at Fergus's head.
She begins to cry and lays the gun gently on his chest.
She pulls on his bindings to release him.
Two police cars, sirens wailing.
Dil's face, close to Fergus's, as the stockings that bound his hands are nearly undone.
His arm is free.
He strokes her hair.
She shudders with weeping.
The music of the song plays in the background.
Jude walking through the open door, arms extended, holding a gun.
Dil rises from the bed and points her gun at Jude.
Dil fires, hits Jude.
Jude falls and is writhing on the floor.
Dil walks closer, holding the gun and pointing it at Jude.
Jude, on the floor, reaches for her gun.
Manages to grab it.
Dil shoots again, like a child, playing with a toy.
She hits Jude in her gun shoulder.
Jude spins one way, the gun the other.
Fergus screams.
As she raises the gun, Dil shoots her repeatedly, saying.
Fergus screams from the bed.
He rips free his other arm.
Dil shoots Jude in the throat, and she falls dead, covered in blood.
Dil turns the gun on Fergus.
Dil points the gun at him, squeezing on the trigger.
Then she stops.
She looks at the picture; walks over and sits down in front of it.
She raises the gun and places it in her mouth.
Fergus takes it gently from her mouth and places it on the table.
He lifts her up by the shoulders.
He leads her out the door.
Fergus goes back into the room, past Jude's body.
Looks out the window to where he can see Dil staggering down the street, through the crowds that have gathered.
He watches Dil run off, with her funny walk.
Then looks down and sees the cop cars pushing through the knot of people around the house.
He picks up the gun, wipes it with a rag to remove Dil's fingerprints.
He turns to the picture of the soldier; talks to it.
He sits in the chair by the window, waiting.
FADE UP to reveal a large interior, with light streaming in the windows.
Large barred doors open and a group of women come through, with parcels, children in tow, etc.
Among them is Dil, looking resplendent.
She walks past the rows of convicts with their families, up to a glass cage, where Fergus sits, waiting.
His eyes open suddenly.
PULL BACK SLOWLY from a CLOSEUP of a television screen with snow on it to reveal a long row of television sets along the ceiling of the aircraft.
PULL BACK from the CLOSEUP of Ben to reveal a row of passengers staring straight ahead, their headsets on.
Ben has not moved.
Now the bed on which he is lying moves as though someone has sat down upon it next to him.
As Ben says this, the door to the bedroom opens and MRS. BRADDOCK looks in.
They move out of the door, Mr. Braddock steering Ben.
PHIL and MIMI CARLSON are coming up the stairs as the Braddocks are moving down.
Mrs. Carlson gives Ben a broad wink.
Ben tries to smile and return the wink politely.
They reach the hall at the bottom of the stairs.
Ben moves to the front door and opens it.
MR. LOOMIS steps into the house and grabs Ben's hand.
Mr. Loomis closes the door and pushes Ben back down the hall.
Mr. Loomis turns and goes into the dining room.
Ben moves back to the stairway as THREE LADIES come out of the living room.
One lady takes Ben's right hand, another lady his left, the third fingers the front of his jacket.
MR. MCQUIRE appears behind Ben.
They look at each other for a moment.
Mr. McQuire turns and walks back into the house.
The people at the other end of the yard look toward Ben.
Ben goes into the house through the back door.
We can see through the windows of the house, Ben making his way through people trying to stop him and speak to him as he goes through rooms, up the stairs and to his room.
SOUND of a door SLAMMING.
Ben stands with his back against the door.
LONG SHOT Over Ben to pool area and people below.
SOUND of the door OPENING.
Ben turns.
MRS. ROBINSON enters the room.
They stand for a moment, looking at each other.
Mrs. Robinson moves into the room and sits on the edge of the bed.
Mrs. Robinson takes a cigarette from her purse and lights it.
She blows out the match and puts it down carefully on the bedspread.
Ben picks up a wastebasket, walks over to the bed, picks up the match and puts it in the wastebasket.
Ben reaches into his pocket and hands Mrs. Robinson a set of car keys.
Mrs. Robinson looks at him.
Mrs. Robinson shakes her head.
She throws the keys to him.
Ben gets out and goes around to her side and opens the door.
They move to the door.
She takes out her key and opens the door.
Ben turns and walks down the hall.
They enter sunroom.
She nods.
He looks at her.
She pours herself a drink.
She hands him a drink.
She turns on the phonograph.
Ben looks at her.
They look at each other.
Ben is half standing.
He puts his hand up and retreats around the other side of the chair.
She looks at him.
We move with Mrs. Robinson and Ben out of the sunroom, into the hall, up the stairs and along the hall to the doorway to Elaine's room.
Ben moves into the room and looks up at the portrait.
In the b.g. Mrs. Robinson watches him.
He steps back.
She turns her back.
Ben reaches forward and pulls the zipper down.
Mrs. Robinson lets her dress fall to the floor.
Benjamin walks out of the door and down the hall.
The CAMERA PUSHES with him to the door.
We see the entire stairway and part of the downstairs hall.
Ben gets to the stairs and starts down.
She walks out of the shot.
Ben starts back up the stairs.
Ben appears as he slowly climbs the stairs.
Ben gets to the top of the stairs, and starts slowly down the hall.
Ben walks quickly into Elaine's room, crosses to the bed and puts the purse down.
As he starts to turn back, he looks up at Elaine's portrait.
There is a movement reflected in the glass of the portrait.
He turns quickly.
Mrs. Robinson, naked, is shutting the door to the bedroom behind her.
She smiles.
Ben leaps at the door, pushes Mrs. Robinson aside, struggles with the door, gets the door open, runs into the hall and down the stairs.
Ben rushes into the sunroom and sits down.
Ben jumps up, gets the glass he had been drinking from and sits down again.
SOUND of the front door OPENING and CLOSING.
FOOTSTEPS approach the sunroom.
MR. ROBINSON enters.
Mr. Robinson reaches for Ben's glass.
Mr. Robinson takes the glass from him.
Mr. Robinson turns his back to Ben to mix the drinks.
Mr. Robinson turns and brings him the drink.
Ben shakes his head.
Ben nods.
Mrs. Robinson enters the room.
She is now wearing the dress she wore earlier.
Ben starts to get up.
Ben sits.
Mrs. Robinson nods.
He stands.
Mr. Robinson stands up with him.
They start out of the sunroom.
Ben nods.
Ben continues to walk toward us.
The sun shines brightly.
Standing and sitting around the pool are Mr. and Mrs. Braddock, their friends MR. and MRS. ARNOLD, and the Arnold children, PETER and LOUISE, who are eight or nine.
Watching from across the fence on one side of the house: the young girl from next door and her boy friend.
Across the fence on the other side of the house: a quartet of adults, formally dressed as though for a cocktail party, holding drinks and watching.
One of them holds a baby.
The Braddocks, the Arnolds and their children are dressed in California Contemporary Sport Style: the adults in styles infinitely too young for them, the children in styles infinitely too old for them.
Mr. Braddock stands alone at the end of the pool near the house.
The others are grouped, more or less, at the other end.
Mr. Braddock is hamming it up.
Mr. Braddock has moved over by one of the windows of the house, the window into the kitchen.
He speaks quickly -- in a fake sotto voce -- towards the window.
But Mr. Braddock has already moved away from the window and is readdressing his audience.
They laugh; Mrs. Arnold makes a face at Mr. Arnold as he grinningly acknowledges the reponse to his snappy comeback.
Mr. Braddock darts back to the window.
Mr. Braddock moves to the screen door and pushes it open.
It slams against the wall inside.
At the back of the hall, inside the house, stands Ben, dressed in a full length skin diver's wet suit, flippers on his feet, the oxygen tank strapped to his back, the mask pushed up his forehead, the air hose dangling.
He holds a spear gun in his hand.
The people applaud.
The people in the backyard.
His father stands just outside the screen door.
Ben's arms come into view and pull the mask down.
We are now looking through the mask as we MOVE FORWARD down the hall.
Everything is slightly distorted through the glass.
Ben's hand comes up again with the breathing apparatus in it.
We MOVE out of the door and toward the pool.
Mr. Braddock is running back and forth, clapping his hands and delivering his now soundless pitch.
We MOVE DOWN the steps and into the shallow end of the pool.
Mr. Braddock is moving along the side of the pool, motioning toward us to come down to the deep end.
He joins Mr. Arnold at the far end of the pool.
They both begin to motion us toward them.
We get to the deep end of the pool.
He has a big smile.
We SURFACE again and PAN AROUND for a last look.
The figures, through the slightly distorted glass of the mask of Mrs. Arnold and Mrs. Braddock, watching and smiling; the neighbors on each side of the house, looking over their fences and laughing and pointing; Mr. Arnold nodding encouragement and talking; Mr. Braddock on his knees, smiling and trying to reach out far enough to push us under.
We GO UNDER and SINK to the bottom of the pool.
Looking down on the pool, on Ben's black suited body at the bottom and the people standing around the pool, looking down into it.
In a phone booth.
The booth is in the entrance area of the hotel between the lobby and the driveway.
Ben holds the receiver to his ear.
Ben hangs up slowly.
He stands up in the booth, looks around, moves about uncomfortably for a few moments, removes his jacket and carrying it folded across his arm in front of him, leaves the phone booth and crosses to the doors that lead to the main lobby.
As he is about to go in, the doors open and a group of VERY OLD PEOPLE start coming out, filling the doorway and moving very slowly, muttering to each other and helping each other out of the door and down the steps.
Ben holds one of the doors open for them and stands politely to one side.
As they get through, Ben starts to move inside.
At that moment, A DOZEN YOUNG PEOPLE, dressed as though for a high school dance, push him to one side and move past him into the lobby.
He moves back against the other door, holding it open and allowing them to go in first.
He smiles politely and they pay no attention to him at all.
He follows them into the lobby.
They move toward the front desk and he moves with them.
One of the boys at the front of the group leans in and says something to the CLERK behind the desk.
The clerk points across the lobby and says something to him.
He points vaguely in the direction of the other young people.
Terror and disbelief start in Ben's eyes.
He looks helplessly at the clerk.
She grasps Ben's hand and shakes it.
MISS DEWITTE, who, from the looks of things, always has been and always will be, Miss DeWitte, takes Ben's hand.
Ben finds himself shaking the twelve-year-old boy's hand.
Ben switches to Mr. Singleman's hand.
Mrs. Singleman looks at the seating list she has been holding.
Ben is backing out.
He rises quickly.
They sit down.
Ben tries to smile then looks out the window, then down at the center of the table.
Ben looks toward a passing WAITER and raises his hand.
Ben looks back at Mrs. Robinson apologetically.
The waiter stops in his tracks, turns toward them.
The waiter moves to their table.
The waiter looks at Mrs. Robinson.
The waiter moves away.
Ben watches him go.
He shakes his head.
Ben walks out of the Veranda Room and into the lobby.
Ben walks to the front desk and stands there.
He pushes the card and a pen toward Ben.
Ben writes his name on the card and then stares at it for a moment, crumples it up and fills out a second card.
Ben reaches for the key.
He hands Ben the key.
A waiter is standing next to the table with a telephone.
Mrs. Robinson turns in her chair and looks through the glass into the lobby.
Ben is in the phone booth in the lobby no more than twenty feet away.
Over Ben's shoulder, we can see his face reflected in the glass door and, through it, Mrs. Robinson sitting in the Veranda Room.
He hangs up.
He leaves the phone booth and walks back into the main lobby.
As he passes the desk, on his way to the elevator, he starts to pat his breast pocket.
The desk clerk looks up.
He clears his throat and then he kisses her.
Ben opens the closet door.
She turns her back.
He undoes the zipper at her neck.
She turns and looks at him.
He backs away.
He slams the bathroom door shut.
The light in the room disappears.
The midsummer sun beats down on the Braddock swimming pool and on Ben who lies on a rubber raft in the middle of the pool.
Ben wears dark glasses, is deeply tanned, and holds a beer can in one hand.
Ben opens his eyes and moves his head slightly.
Mr. Braddock is passionately stoking a barbeque fire.
Mrs. Braddock is going toward him from the house, carrying some ominously large thing wrapped in tinfoil.
He rolls off the raft and swims to the end of the pool.
He climbs out, walks to the back door, takes his shirt from a chair and starts to put it on as he opens the back door and goes through.
Ben has just shut the door to the bathroom behind him.
He is wearing his shirt, buttoned, and no trousers.
PAN WITH BEN as he walks across the room past Mrs. Robinson who is standing in front of the bureau taking off her bracelet and watch.
He moves to a chair and sits.
Mrs. Robinson moves in to Ben, kneels in front of him and starts to unbutton his shirt.
We now see behind Ben the door that leads from the Braddock den, in which Ben is sitting.
In the dining room, Mr. and Mrs. Braddock are sitting, having their dinner, looking through the doorways toward Ben.
Ben stands, crosses back to the door to the den and shuts it.
On Ben's back as he returns to the chair and sits.
A television set, facing the chair, is on.
Ben picks up a can of beer and drinks from it.
Ben watches it.
Ben's face, watching.
Ben watching.
PULL BACK and we are in the Taft Hotel Room.
Ben is sitting on the bed, leaning against the headboard, watching the television set which is on a stand facing the bed.
PULL BACK to a WIDE SHOT of the room, lit only by the light from the television set.
Mrs. Robinson walks into the shot, half dressed.
She passes between Ben and the television set and goes out of frame.
Ben continues to stare at the set.
Mrs. Robinson appears again and passes the other way.
Mrs. Robinson passes back the other way again.
Mrs. Robinson, now fully dressed and carrying her purse, passes through again and, without looking at Ben, goes to the door of the hotel room, opens it and exits.
SOUND of DOOR closing.
Follow Ben as he gets up and moves to the windows of what is now his BEDROOM in the Braddock house.
He opens the closed blinds over the window.
The sun is bright outside.
His bathing suit is on the window sill.
He takes the suit and puts it on.
He moves to the bedroom door, opens it and goes out.
We see Mrs. Braddock in the kitchen.
Ben comes through the back door, moves to the pool and dives in.
The raft floats in the center of the pool.
Ben swims toward us the length of the pool.
Ben surfaces and, in one movement, pulls himself up on the raft and lands on top of Mrs. Robinson on the bed.
He stays on top of her for a moment.
Ben turns toward us and looks.
Mr. Braddock standing by the side of the pool.
The sun is behind him.
Mrs. Braddock steps in beside Mr. Braddock.
Mr. Robinson steps in beside the others.
They blot out the sun.
Mrs. Robinson steps in beside them.
A long pause.
The door opens and Mrs. Robinson enters.
She stops.
She looks at him.
Mrs. Robinson looks at him and raises her eyebrows.
Ben thinks for a moment.
Ben looks at her.
She pulls the covers down.
He starts putting on his shirt.
She sits on the edge of the bed and watches him.
She shakes her head.
There is another long pause.
At opposite sides of the room, without looking at each other, they begin to take off their clothes.
Ben sits at the table, eating his breakfast and looking at the back of a cereal box.
Mr. and Mrs. Braddock are there.
Benjamin looks at his father for a moment, then continues eating and reading.
He slides off the raft and goes underwater.
His hair streaming up, his eyes open.
Mr. Robinson turns toward the sunroom.
Mrs. Robinson is sitting there.
Mr. Robinson exits.
SHOT - BEN AND ELAINE in Ben's car.
From the back.
Ben leans forward slightly, pushing the car recklessly in and out of the traffic.
He leans on the HORN.
The car directly ahead of him does not move to the right.
Ben jerks his car over to the right, swerves around the car ahead, jamming his horn down, and swerves back into the outside lane, giving the driver of the other car an angry look as he passes him.
Elaine holds on to the dashboard to keep her balance.
Ben and Elaine are seated at a table.
Elaine sits in the chair with her back to the stage.
She folds her hands on the table and looks down at them.
The two chairs are slightly angled toward each other so that Ben can look up at the stage without looking directly at Elaine.
The stripper is reflected in Ben's glasses.
She is down to a tasseled bra and g-string.
She is twirling the tassels.
Elaine turns around, looks at the stripper and turns back.
Elaine leans against the side of the building and pulls her arm away.
Ben, facing her, keeps moving from side to side, trying to get her to look at him.
She keeps looking away.
She starts to cry.
People on the sidewalk are looking at them.
She turns away from them.
Ben moves away from them.
Ben moves around in front of her.
She brings both hands up to her face.
Ben looks at her for a few moments in agony.
Then, very determined, he takes her wrists in his hands and pulls them away from her face.
She looks up startled.
She starts to give a little cry but before she can he is kissing her.
She closes her eyes.
He brings his fists, containing her hands, up to the side of her face.
He opens his hands against her face, freeing her hands.
Her hands move slowly to his wrists and hang on.
After a while she pulls away, turning her head slightly to one side.
He looks at her.
She is watching him carefully.
A car with a COUPLE OF TEENAGERS has driven up in the slot on their right.
Its RADIO is tuned into a rock and roll station and it is playing LOUDLY.
Ben leans across Elaine and speaks through the window to the kid behind the wheel.
The kid turns the radio up.
Ben and Elaine roll their windows up.
From outside of car.
Ben is talking with great animation -- Elaine is watching him.
They are both eating as Ben talks, telling Elaine a story.
Their windows are rolled up.
The car coasts silently to a stop in front of the Robinson house.
They sit there for a long time without saying anything, Ben's hand touching her shoulder.
There is a SQUEAL of TIRES as Ben almost drives off the road.
Ben and Elaine enter the lobby and stand just inside the door.
They start in a few steps.
ONE of the CAR PARKERS passes them on his way out.
CAMERA BEGINS TO PULL UP AND AWAY.
A BELLBOY passes them.
The room clerk smiles at them.
Ben and Elaine stop a few feet into the center of the lobby.
The CAMERA PULLS BACK to a HIGH OVERHEAD SHOT revealing many people moving back and forth in the lobby, passing Ben and Elaine.
Ben brings Elaine through the door to the porch.
Ben and Elaine in his car.
He takes his hand off the ignition, jams on the accelerator and drives the car speedily for twenty- one feet and jams on the brakes.
He turns off the ignition and the lights.
He puts his head down on the steering wheel.
He lifts his head.
She nods.
He turns the key in the ignition and starts the car.
He freezes with his hand still on the key.
He turns off the engine.
He starts the car and drives out.
It is raining.
On the seat beside Ben is a package.
From the way it is wrapped, we can tell it is a gift.
Ben's right hand is on it as he drives.
Past Ben and through the windshield as the Robinson house comes closer and closer.
The front door of the Robinson house opens and Mrs. Robinson comes out, dressed in a housecoat, and, in four or five fast steps, reaches the car, opens the door on the passengers side and climbs in.
Ben starts the car forward down the driveway.
As they drive.
Ben stops the car in front of a house halfway down the block.
There is a pause while Ben looks at her expression.
Then he grabs the keys out of the ignition, opens the door on his side and jumps out of the car, carrying the package.
TRACK WITH BEN as he runs up the street and up the driveway toward the Robinson house.
Ben gets to the front door.
Ben runs up the stairs.
He still carries the package.
Ben gets to the top just as Elaine comes out of the door to her bedroom.
She is wearing a skirt and slip and carrying one shoe.
Ben pushes her back into her room.
Ben turns and looks.
Mrs. Robinson is just entering the house.
He holds her against the wall in the corner.
Back in the corner.
Mrs. Robinson's face appears in the crack in the door at Elaine's shoulder.
Elaine looks from Ben's face to the crack through which she can see her mother's eyes staring.
She moves toward him as though to hit him.
Elaine SLAMS the door shut.
Mrs. Robinson stands at the end of it, looking at Ben.
He looks at her in horror.
She gets further and further away as though it is a very long hall in a very bad dream.
Ben sits cross-legged on his bed in the dark, his back against the fishtank, smoking.
Ben drives by in his car.
He looks at the house.
Ben dressed differently, stands by the window overlooking the backyard.
Over his shoulder, we can see Mr. Braddock down by the pool, dressed in a sweater, cleaning the pool with a long-handled scoop.
Mr. Braddock looks up at Ben's window.
Ben moves aside.
Ben is standing behind a tree watching the Robinson house.
In the driveway of the Robinson house, Elaine is getting into the Robinson car.
Mr. Robinson is putting Elaine's luggage into the car.
Mrs. Robinson stands at the door.
Mr. Robinson gets into the car and starts it.
The car drives down the driveway and down the street.
Ben, dressed differently again, sits in a chair by his desk.
He is writing.
On the piece of paper is written: DEAR ELAINE, ELAINE, ELAINE, ELAINE, and her name several dozen times.
He stops and looks up.
It is early morning.
We see a swinging door pushed open to reveal: Mr. Braddock, dressed in a bathrobe, standing at the kitchen counter by the window through which we can see an orange tree.
Ben stands inside door.
Mr. Braddock starts to smile.
Ben driving his car.
The campus is empty except for Ben who, dressed carefully in his black suit, sits on a bench in the quadrangle outside of Wendell Hall.
During which Ben remains static while the quadrangle and the area around him fill up with students; walking, talking, hurrying to class, strolling, sitting, reading, handing out petitions, etc.
Elaine comes out.
She walks, carrying her books, in Ben's direction.
Approaching from the distance.
As she walks, she is joined by another GIRL with whom she converses as they walk.
Watching.
As they approach, they are joined by a tall BOY with a beard.
He starts toward them, falters, straightens himself.
Mr. McCleery stops and turns.
Ben almost runs into him.
Mr. McCleery takes a couple of steps up, Ben following and stops again.
Mr. McCleery takes a couple more steps and stops again.
He looks at Ben searchingly, then turns and continues up the stairs and down the hall.
The lady sitting next to Elaine takes a look at her, turns around and looks at Ben, then looks at Elaine again.
Ben and Elaine are walking along in front of one of the outside animal cages.
Ben is walking a step or two behind Elaine.
Carl strides up to them.
He takes the pipe out of his mouth and puts it in his pocket.
He reaches out and takes Elaine's hands.
Carl frowns and looks up over Elaine's shoulder at Ben.
Ben smiles.
Ben steps forward and grasps Carl's hand.
Carl steps back and puts an arm around Elaine's shoulder.
The three of them look at each other for a moment.
There is another KNOCK.
Elaine is standing in the hall.
Ben nods.
Ben moves in behind her and puts his hand on her arm.
Several BOYS are gathering in the hallway trying to see into the room.
Ben edges through the door into the hallway.
He opens the door a little way.
They all try to see in.
The boys start back to their rooms.
Mr. McCleery and Ben stand and look at each other for a few seconds.
Mr. McCleery turns away and walks down the hall and starts down the stairs.
Ben turns and goes back into the room.
Elaine sits in the chair.
She watches him as he goes to the bureau, takes some shirts from a drawer and puts them in the suitcase, then goes back to the bureau.
He gets down on his knees and looks under the bureau.
He goes back to the bureau, gets some socks and underwear and carries them to the suitcase.
He goes back to the bureau, opens a drawer, takes out some T- shirts and the beer can and carries them to the suitcase.
Elaine gets up, goes to the door and opens it.
She walks out, shutting the door behind her.
He crosses to the window.
Past Ben, through the window, we see Elaine walking away.
She walks the length of the street and disappears.
Ben asleep in his bed.
Suddenly he sits up.
Standing in the darkness by the door.
He gets out of the bed.
He goes to her and they kiss.
She shakes her head.
She nods.
She goes to the door.
She opens the door and steps into the hall.
He goes to the door.
Students are moving quickly from building to building.
Ben is walking alongside Elaine.
They move up the steps of a classroom building.
Ben pushes through a lot of students to keep up with Elaine.
They walk down a corridor.
On each side are open doors to classrooms with students filing into each of them.
Elaine turns into one of the doors.
Ben is left in the hall.
All the doors in the classrooms close.
He leans against the wall.
Standing poised by the door.
The classroom doors open and students start to file out.
Elaine comes out of the classroom.
Elaine starts walking down the corridor towards the exit door.
Ben follows her, moving out of the way of the other students.
Elaine and twenty other girls are in basketball uniforms.
Elaine sits on the bench, watching.
Ben stands behind her.
She turns and looks at him.
Elaine jumps up, applauding a shot.
Elaine and several other girls run onto the court as a number of girls run off the court to the bench.
Ben is seated across a study table from Elaine.
There are many other students scattered around the room.
She starts to get up.
She starts to move away.
Ben and Elaine are standing at the entrance.
Ben remains standing in exactly the same position.
After a few moments the door opens and Elaine comes out, steps quickly to Ben, kisses him, then runs back inside.
Ben turns and starts away from the door.
A tall bearded MAN comes out and goes past Ben.
Through the window of a hippy jewelry store we see a saleswoman modeling a ring for Ben.
He nods, she takes it off, puts it in a box and gives it to him.
He pays for it and exits PAST CAMERA, WHISTLING.
Ben enters carrying four oddly shaped boxes and some flowers.
Ben is whistling happily as he runs up the stairs two at a time.
He opens the door to his room and steps in.
The room is dark.
The figure of a MAN is silhouetted against the window.
Ben freezes just inside the door.
Ben takes a step forward.
Mr. Robinson stands at the door.
Mr. Robinson opens the door and starts into the hall.
Mr. Robinson turns back from the hall.
Mr. Robinson starts down the stairs.
Mr. McCleery is standing on the stairway, listening.
Mr. Robinson turns and goes down the stairs, past Mr. McCleery who looks up at Ben.
He walks to the door, looks out into the hall at Mr. McCleery, then shuts the door.
Ben stuffs the money back in his pocket and runs down the stairs and out of the building.
Through the door we see him run down the street and out of sight.
Ben reacting.
The elvator at the end of the hall opens and a fat GIRL walks toward us with an envelope in her hand.
She walks into CAMERA.
Ben driving his car SOUND: An ENVELOPE being read.
Ben follows her through the hall into Mrs. Robinson's room.
Mrs. Robinson, without stopping, puts Elaine's clothes down next to a half-packed open suitcase on her bed and moves to a telephone on the night table.
She lifts the receiver and dials zero.
Ben follows.
She hangs up.
Ben, driving rapidly.
He jams on the brakes and stops the car in the middle of the street.
They stop eating and turn toward him.
He goes back to his breakfast.
A great deal of laughter follows this gem.
Ben driving.
Ben is exhausted-looking.
The car, moving speedily south on the Highway to Santa Barbara.
SHOT the CAR leaving the freeway under a SANTA BARBARA sign.
The car swings onto an off ramp and down to a street, turns into a gas station and stops near the office.
Ben gets out of the car and runs into the office.
The gas station ATTENDANT is sitting reading a stock car magazine.
The attendant puts down his magazine and stares.
Ben runs out of the office.
The attendant goes to the door.
getting into car.
The attendant is in the b.g.
He puts his hands up against the glass and slumps.
The ORGAN music starts to THUNDER.
He moves to the center of the window and begins to POUND on the glass.
The other guests are ad-libbing their confusion.
Her face turning quickly to look up at Ben.
Elaine pulls her hand away.
He turns toward the man standing in front of the door and raises the cross over his head.
Eddie leaves the car parked at the gas station and heads for the bar.
Armstead's is a typical small town pool hall.
It has a bar, a short order counter, a skee-ball machine, and pool tables for small, friendly games.
The few people in Armstead's this day are not playing; they sit and read the papers.
Charlie and Eddie are at the bar, drinking straight bourbon.
Charlie rises from his barstool.
Eddie is already at the table.
Charlie joins Eddie.
The game is in mid-progress.
It's Eddie's shot.
He downs his bourbon, weaves a bit, bends over the table, and awkwardly pokes at the white cue ball with his stick, missing an easy shot.
Several more townspeople have come in from the street and are following the play.
The bartender refills the glasses as soon as they are emptied.
Two balls lay side by side on the table.
Eddie peers at them, trying to figure his shot, blinking his eyes to focus better.
Some of the onlookers seem skeptical.
But Eddie pats the corner pocket confidently, leans over, and raps out his shot.
The ball banks in.
He pounds his pal Charlie on the shoulder and collapses into a nearby chair.
Stung, Eddie lies across the table and sets them up himself.
They toss their money on the table, and Eddie shoots, but his shot is too hard and his ball leaps over the side of the table.
The bartender cannot contain his staccato laughter.
Eddie pauses, smiling.
Sheepishly, the bartender replaces the balls in their original positions.
Eddie chalks up his cue, waiting impatiently for the bartender to return with the money from the cash register.
Then he downs his drink and quickly strokes out his shot, the ball banking crisply and directly into the corner pocket.
There is a cocky leer on his face as he reaches for the dollar bills.
The door of the Packard coupe slams shut.
Eddie Felson holds up his stuffed billfold for his pal, Charlie Burns, to see.
He tosses it on the seat beside him and turns on the ignition.
Henry nods, then steps up on a stool to fix the minute hand of the clock.
It now stands at ten o'clock.
It is twelve-thirty when Eddie Felson and Charlie Burns first enter into Ames.
Only one table is in use; the hall is empty.
In Eddie's hand is his leather cue case.
They stand before the swinging doors and look around.
They saunter over to the cashier's cage.
A sign on the brass bar reads NO GAMBLING ALLOWED.
Eddie's arrival is noted by Big John and Preacher, a gambler and an addict, who hang out at Ames at all hours, waiting for action.
Eddie takes his cue ball from the cashier's cage and heads for a table.
As he passes Charlie, he mimics the cashier wickedly.
The two go to a table.
Eddie selects a house cue, then rolls it over the table top to test the roll.
He seems pleased.
He runs his hand over the green felt as if he were caressing it.
His last test is to sweep the cue ball into the corner pocket.
Eddie takes some balls out of the return box and throws them on the table.
But Big John and Preacher lean forward in their chairs to listen in.
Big John, stubbly cigar between his fingers, drifts over to their table.
As Big John walks off, Eddie smiles at Charlie.
Eight sharp.
A departing customer holds the door for an incoming one: Minnesota Fats.
Heads turn when he makes his punctual appearance.
Fats' clothes reflect his high station at Ames Pool Hall: a gray felt bowler hat, and an expensive, tailored overcoat, with a carnation in its lapel and two silk handkerchiefs peeking up from its breast pocket.
He moves like a sultan through the room, past Big John, whose eyes dip significantly, and over to the coat rack, where Henry respectfully takes his coat and hat.
The buzzard-like eyes of the cashier direct his gaze toward Eddie's table.
Fats withdraws a cigarette from his gold case, then casually strolls toward Eddie's table standing apart and quietly observing the sharp, precise movements of his prospective opponent.
Even though Ames is filled with players, there is little noise other than the clicking of pool balls.
Fats and Eddie regard each other with amusement, sharing the private joke of pool hustlers.
At his command, Ames comes to life.
Players drag their chairs across the floor and position them around the main table.
Eddie, hand to his mouth, realizes that the big moment has arrived and beckons to Charlie for his leather cue case.
The uniformed maids withdraw the cover off the green felt top, and Sausage, the racker, begins to bang the balls into the wooden racking triangle.
Fats is in the washroom, scrubbing his hands and nails.
Eddie stands and screws together his inlaid, ivory-pointed cue as Fats dries his hands.
He and Fats eye one another.
Henry helps Fats on with his coat.
Fats carefully extends his palms so that Henry may sprinkle on some talcum powder.
Sausage finishes racking.
They are ready to start.
Fats, immaculate in jacket and tie, tosses a wad of bills -- his stake money -- onto the table.
Charlie does the same, counting the bills out one by one.
Willie takes the money.
Two balls are rolled to the end of the table, and Fats and Eddie, like two duelers, prepare to shoot for the break.
In the silence of the room, they bend over their cues and softly stroke out their shots.
The balls roll down the table, bank off the far shoulder, and slowly return toward the two players.
Fats' ball hits the closer shoulder.
The balls are returned and Eddie makes his break shot, a glancing blow that leaves the pack of balls nearly intact and the white cue ball lying far away at the end of the table.
Eddie looks up, with a smile.
Fats walks around the table and peers at the balls.
Placing his cigarette on the wooden rim of the table, Fats rams the cue ball into the pack, dropping the six ball into the pocket.
The table is now his.
Eddie sits down unhappily.
Fats plays quickly, moving from shot to shot with studied authority, his eyes and hands working fluidly together.
The shot goes in.
As Eddie watches, the prancing, elegant Fats maneuvers around the table.
The shot goes in.
We see Fats' bejeweled fingers curl around the cue stick, the stick then darting out to send a ball caroming off a far bank and into a side pocket.
Fats keeps sinking shots.
It is eleven o'clock.
Eddie is up.
The crowd at Ames sits stolidly in their seats, watching each player, each move.
The shot goes in and he lines up another.
The shot is a difficult one involving a combination of balls.
As it rolls in, the crowd breaks into applause, and Fats bangs the butt of his cue stick on the floor to show his appreciation.
So Eddie does the same.
Fats peers at the pack of balls huddled together, then points to one that lies in the middle of the pack.
Big John looks around -- the shot seems impossible.
Fats slams the cue ball into the pack.
The balls carom outward in all directions.
Only the seven rolls slowly into the corner pocket.
Eddie slumps back in his seat as the crowd applauds.
It is twelve o'clock, and Fats dominates the play.
As he calls out the litany of his shots, we see, superimposed over his hands and his face and the sound of socking pool balls, the spectators, stupefied by the action;
Charlie, swallowing hard; Eddie, looking on, waiting to play;
and the bills endlessly unfolding out of Charlie's hands and floating onto the table.
One-thirty and Fats is still shooting.
The shot rolls in.
The shot goes in.
Fats pounds his stick on the floor.
Fats allows a perfunctory bow of his head, a courtly gesture, to Eddie's manager.
Charlie looks away, avoiding his eyes.
Now it's Eddie's voice we hear calling out the shots.
He circles the table, a proud, cocky smile on his face, and superimposed over his movements we see the spectators, hunched up in their chairs, and Fats' face, glowering, hostile.
The applause grows louder as the balls keep spinning toward the pockets.
Eddie beams with pride and excitement as he accepts the acclamation of the sharks at Ames.
He slaps down the chalk and returns to his seat.
Fats draws himself slowly out of his chair and hands the money to Charlie.
It is almost four o'clock.
Fats hesitates for a moment, then reaches in his pocket for some bills.
They stand up, remove their jackets, and prepare to play again.
As Preacher opens the door to the back room, clutching a paper bag filled with bottles to his chest, we see six men seated around a table, playing poker.
Preacher approaches one of them and whispers something hurriedly in his ear.
The man is Bert Gordon.
Except for his dark glasses, he might pass for a conservative businessman out for an evening with the boys, sipping milk instead of alcohol to soothe an ulcer.
He nods to Preacher who then leaves.
Bert appears thoughtful for a moment.
He rises.
Bert sips his milk.
A floor full of cigarette butts surround Charlie's chair.
Charlie crushes out another on the floor and immediately reaches for more.
Eddie drains the last drips from his bottle of bourbon, then looks jauntily at Bert, who now sits quietly in a chair, watching them both.
He misses.
Eddie squirms out of his seat, eager to play, eager to go on winning.
Bert sighs.
The shot goes in.
Fats opens a fresh bottle of whisky.
The game goes on.
The shot goes in.
The hands of the clock on the wall spin around toward eight in the morning.
Only the voice of Sausage is heard, signaling the end of a game.
Ames is empty now, except for the players and the employees.
As Fats bends over to shoot, Henry draws the Venetian blinds.
Bert holds a hand to his temple, unnerved by Fats' discomposure.
There is a break in the action.
Fats and Eddie eye each other coldly, Fats with his glass in his hand, Eddie with his bottle.
Eddie takes a swig and returns to the game.
Bert reaches forward to hand Charlie more money.
Bert replaces the billfold in his coat pocket.
Eddie, weary now, his hands resting on the table, looks up at the cool, impassive face of Bert Gordon.
Bert rises, moves his chair about six inches, and sits down again.
It sinks.
Eddie goes over to the water cooler for a drink while Fats doles out his losings on the table.
He stands before Fats and Bert Gordon, waiting for an answer.
Fats and Bert exchange glances but nothing is said.
Still no reply, no sign of giving in.
Eddie starts to go back to his chair, suddenly turns, a weary, clowning smile on his face.
Eddie walks over to the water cooler.
Eddie's face buried in his lap as Charlie massages his back.
Behind him, in the washroom, is Fats, washing his face and hands.
Charlie gets Eddie a bottle.
Bert and Henry watch Eddie coldly.
A drunken, exhausted Eddie nods, looks up at Bert, grins maliciously, and takes a drink.
Charlie starts to put away Eddie's cue stick.
Fats emerges from the washroom, dries his hands, looks at Eddie and then at Bert who nods.
Henry helps Fats into the jacket with the carnation still in the lapel.
Eddie grins at this.
So does Bert.
Fats opens his palms for the sprinkling of the talcum powder.
Fats rubs his hands together, then takes out his cigarette case.
Bert smiles in appreciation.
Eddie grabs the leather case out of Charlie's hands.
Eddie rises and confronts Fats almost scornfully.
Eddie looks down at his own dirty, disheveled shirt.
He and a smiling Bert exchange glances.
Eddie moves to put on his jacket.
Charlie confronts him.
Eddie puts a bottle into the pocket of his jacket and returns to the table to screw together his cue stick.
The sight of Fats makes him laugh again.
Everyone stares at Eddie as he scratches his head, alone with his private joke.
Eddie abruptly tosses his cue case away.
A worried Charlie picks up the case and stands by mutely, watching Eddie disintegrate.
Eddie leans over to shoot, then turns away, laughing loudly to himself.
Fats watches him, soberly, patiently.
A high angle.
Fats is shooting.
Eddie is asleep on a stool against a wall.
Even Bert is dozing.
The shots go in.
Eddie bangs his head against the wall.
He knocks over a bottle as he tries to get up off the stool.
The noise startles him.
Charlie watches sadly.
Eddie gropes through his pockets and comes up with a few crumpled bills.
Fats rises and tosses his cue on the table.
Willie gives him the stake money.
Fats confronts Eddie.
Fats steps by Eddie and heads for the coat rack, slapping the stake money into Bert's hand as he goes by.
Bert returns the money to his billfold, wordlessly.
The blinds are drawn and the light strikes Eddie in the eyes, but still he stumbles after Fats, holding his money out before him, pleading.
He bangs against the corner of the table and falls onto the floor.
Fats hears him go down and pauses, turning to see Charlie rush to Eddie's side.
After a moment, Fats continues on toward the door.
Charlie slaps Eddie's cheeks.
Bert, Sausage, Willie, Preach step around the body on their way out.
Eddie is lying on his bed staring at the ceiling, the crashing of pool balls sounding in his head.
He looks over at Charlie, asleep in the next bed.
He rolls out of bed and goes to the window.
We see a neon sign flashing across the street.
It reads AMES BILLIARDS.
Then Eddie returns to his bed, leaves the keys to the Packard and some money on the night table next to Charlie.
He picks up his valise, his hanging bag, and his leather cue case.
Eddie goes toward the door.
As Eddie enters, carrying his bags, a few early morning travelers -- some soldiers and a man in a Stetson hat -- pass him by.
He has been up all night.
It is a typical bus station washroom at that time of the morning.
The residue of a full day's traveling is in evidence: crumpled paper towels, cigarette butts, etc.
Part of the residue is a drunk who sits on the shoeshine seat, fast asleep.
Eddie looks at him, shaking his head.
A sign on the wall reads IS THIS YOUR LUCKY DAY? Eddie laughs to himself, puts his hanging bag and cue case on a chair, then turns to face his image in the mirror.
A wizened old attendant sits nearby.
The attendant, whose every move seems to require a tremendous effort, shuffles over and grabs a towel as Eddie removes his jacket.
Near the row of coin lockers in the waiting room is a small lunch counter and several tables.
At one table, facing the lockers, is a young woman, Sarah: a book is open before her, and a cup of coffee, and an ashtray filled with cigarette butts.
She looks up for an instant as Eddie appears.
Her eyes return to the printed page.
He locks his bags in a locker.
He now has on a clean shirt and is clean and freshly shaven.
Moving toward the counter, Eddie notices Sarah.
He goes to the lunch counter, still looking at her.
He sniffs some wrapped sandwiches.
Eddie wanders over to a table next to Sarah's and sits down.
She ignores him.
She returns to her reading.
Eddie keeps looking at her.
Her hair is brown, cut short, practically straight.
Her lips are pale and thin, and the bone structure of her face, although delicate, is much in evidence.
There is a suggestion of tired wakefulness, of self- sufficiency, about her.
And a frank, open regard which has nothing in it to imply flirtation -- or the lack of it.
Sarah goes back to reading.
The waitress arrives to take Eddie's order.
Eddie holds up two fingers to the waitress, who departs.
The coffee comes.
Eddie leans back against the wall and shuts his eyes.
He slips off to sleep.
The waitress brings a check.
She looks at Eddie anxiously as she digs in her purse for the coins.
She pays, collects her purse and book, and rises to leave.
The public address system bleats over the noise of the crowded luncheonette.
The waitress leans over and slaps Eddie on the shoulder.
He wakes up with a cramped neck.
The bar is nearly empty when Eddie comes in.
As he looks around the bar he sees Sarah, alone at a back booth, sipping a highball.
She seems amused by their encounter.
He takes his drink and joins her at the booth.
Sarah nods.
There is a long pause as she tries to read his face.
Eddie finishes his drink, rises, crosses to the bar, pays the bill, and returns to the booth.
As they go out, Sarah stumbles, and he catches her by the arm.
Eddie pauses a moment to register this as she limps off, then follows.
Eddie goes into the liquor store.
Sarah waits outside, stiff and uneasy.
Then he comes out with the scotch and they walk off down the street together.
They walk slowly, with their eyes pointed straight ahead.
He tries to ignore her halting gait.
They pass under the awning of the neighborhood's elegant Parisien restaurant.
As she searches through her purse for her keys, he reaches out and puts his hand on her shoulder.
She closes her eyes, then draws back against the door, fearful, like a threatened animal.
He takes her head in his hands and kisses her.
She responds but, as he holds her tighter, she starts to struggle.
She pushes him away and shakes her head.
They stand there for a long moment: she looks away; he looks down at the floor.
Then Eddie takes the bag of scotch and places it underneath her arm.
He leaves her there in the hall and walks off.
A door opens.
A hotel manager shows Eddie into a dingy, barely furnished room.
He reaches in his pocket and pulls out some bills.
Eddie removes his bags from the locker.
The sight of the lunch counter reminds him of Sarah.
But the lunchroom is empty; only the janitor is there, mopping up.
Eddie picks up his bags and goes out.
Eddie, on his way back to the hotel, stops at the same liquor store for a bottle.
He enters his room, puts down his bags and the liquor, and sits on his rusted brass bed.
From his pocket he pulls out the few crumpled bills he has left.
He looks at the money, shakes his head disgustedly, and closes his eyes.
It is a friendly, neighborhood bar for business people and cocktail drinkers.
Eddie walks casually by the pool table and over to the bar.
He turns on his stool to watch the game.
Eddie goes back to his bottle of beer.
Some bills drop on a ragged, beat-up pool table.
Two men, dressed in work clothes, stand around looking disgruntled.
They go to the bar.
Eddie sits at a table, smoking, waiting.
The paper bag with the whisky is on the table.
He mashes out his cigarette in the ashtray.
Sarah, dressed in a dark suit, limps toward him.
When he looks up, he sees Sarah standing nearby.
She seems cold and suspicious as she limps toward the table.
She pauses and looks at him.
They stare at one another for a long moment.
He gets up, puts his arm around her shoulder, and walks away with her.
As they walk, she hesitantly puts an arm around his waist.
A hand reaches up to open the wooden shutters.
As they open, we see Eddie, in his underclothes, on the bed.
Sarah, in a robe, walks up and joins him in bed as they both peer out the window.
She hands him her cigarette.
He starts to put on his wristwatch.
He kisses her on the cheek.
He kisses her again, this time on the lips.
He reaches out and closes the shutters.
Sarah emerges from a neighborhood grocery store loaded down with a Cheese Doodles carton full of food.
A woman runs out of the store to give her a parcel she left behind.
He pulls her schoolbooks out of the carton and takes her purse.
She unloads liquor and canned goods from the carton, then goes to join Eddie by the window.
Sarah takes a cigarette lighter out of her purse and hands it to Eddie.
He takes it.
She smiles, then she gets up and returns to the kitchenette.
He comes up behind her and puts his arms around her.
She cuts her hand opening a can.
As he rummages through the closet for his bag he pulls out his leather cue case.
They kiss.
Someone knocks on the door.
Sarah goes to open it.
We stay on Eddie, who examines the lighter in his hand.
He enters the room, awkwardly, toying with the rim of his hat.
There is a long silence.
Charlie sits.
She starts to make the drinks.
Eddie leans up against the wall, listening.
Sarah watches them both, curious, confused.
Suddenly Eddie becomes tense.
Sarah turns to fix the drink.
Eddie signals her to stay where she is.
He moves forward, confronting Charlie.
Eddie walks off.
A tear rolls down Sarah's cheek as she hears this.
She stands near the door, with her back to both of them.
Charlie gets up and moves toward the door.
Sarah, her cheek wet, says nothing.
Charlie puts on his hat and leaves.
Eddie empties his glass and slaps it on the shelf next to Sarah.
She pours it out, saying nothing.
Sarah hands Eddie his drink without looking him in the eye.
She pours herself a very stiff drink as Eddie moves about restlessly.
Sarah drinks her drink.
Still drinking, she turns to him.
They embrace and kiss one another without putting down their glasses.
The room is a mess and Sarah is drunk.
She sits on her knees on the floor, pecking at the keys of her typewriter with one finger.
Her bottle and her glass are beside her.
A bare- chested Eddie is in the kitchen behind her, tossing empty cans and bottles from the sink into a garbage bag.
He carelessly wipes the sink, then throws down the dishrag and goes to the closet, pulling out his leather case.
Reaching for the bottle, Sarah abruptly lurches forward over her typewriter, and knocks the bottle over.
Eddie stares at Sarah as she sways limply on her knees, unmindful of her open robe.
Eddie picks up the bottle and sets it before her.
Taking her ashtray, Eddie rises, runs his hand through her hair for a moment, and then carries off the ashtray and empties it in the garbage bag.
Sarah, still hopelessly drunk, is sprawled out on her bed, futilely attempting to dial a telephone.
Eddie, in a clean shirt and pants, watches her.
He sets the bottle down near the typewriter and notices the sheet of paper stuck in the typewriter's carriage.
He bends down to read it.
She falls back on the bed.
Eddie pulls the paper out of the carriage and reads it.
He thinks for a moment, then angrily crumples the paper in his hands and throws it at her.
Eddie walks off.
Eddie gives her a look, then lowers his eyes.
Eddie turns and slaps her on the cheek.
He reaches for his jacket.
As Eddie pushes through the glass doors to the front room of Johnny's bar.
He looks around at the unused pool tables, then goes to the bar.
A man in a business suit comes out of the back room and joins him at the bar.
The man looks to the bartender for his answer.
Eddie takes his beer to the back room.
The poker game is in progress.
Four men are playing.
One of them is Bert Gordon.
His glass of milk is beside him on the table.
He takes note of Eddie's presence with a quick dart of his eyes.
He takes a seat next to Bert.
As the cards are dealt Eddie steals a glance at the man he has come to see.
The game is over.
Bert is already in the front room.
He sits at a table with a drink, and watches Eddie pass him by on the way to the bar.
Eddie looks at Bert.
Amused, Bert gets up and joins Eddie at the bar.
Bert laughs and signals the bartender for another round.
He starts to go.
Eddie exits.
Sound of ship's horn.
Eddie walks past the piers and warehouses toward a small waterfront bar called Arthur's Pool Hall.
The atmosphere at Arthur's is stifling, oppressive.
A few lonely drinkers, dock workers, sit stooped over their beer bottles at the bar.
In the back is a pool table.
As Eddie enters, we see two burly men, cue sticks in hand, watching as a pale, skinny young man lines up his shot.
They exchange glances, sizing each other up.
Then the young man puts in his shot.
Eddie goes over to the rack and takes a cue.
One of the other players is putting away his cue.
The young man makes his break shot, slamming the nine into the pocket.
He looks up at Eddie, grinning snidely.
The other two men, the losers, stand around, mutely following the play.
Eddie tosses the coin on the table.
Eddie collects his coin while the young man racks up the balls.
Preparing to break, Eddie chalks his cue.
He rams the cue ball into the pack.
The nine drops in.
Everyone is stunned, particularly the young man.
Eddie has lost control of himself.
He is shooting as he did at Ames, rapping in his shots with perfect control.
He is completely oblivious to the glowering faces of the group of men who have gathered around the table to watch.
Eddie makes a tough shot.
The men exchange uneasy glances.
More tough shots: tricky combinations, etc.
Eddie finishes up with yet another combination shot.
The young man digs nervously into his jacket for the money.
All eyes are on Eddie.
Sensing what is about to happen, the young man pays up.
The young man sets down his cue.
He drops the cash on the table and leaves quickly.
Then one of the other men steps forward, a thick-fleshed, obscene-looking man named Turk.
His mouth twists into a mock smile.
As Eddie looks about him at the circle of silent men, each one glaring at him, his fury gives way to fear.
Eddie wipes his mouth with his sleeve and nervously backs away.
Eddie tries to back off but there is nowhere to go, so he makes a casual movement toward the table.
Turk takes the bills from the table and stuffs them into Eddie's breast pocket.
They drag Eddie into the men's room and shove him up against the ground-glass partition.
We see his cheek pressed against the glass, and the foggy silhouettes of the others behind him.
Eddie, his mouth open, screams horribly.
He screams again.
They let go of his arms and he slumps to the floor.
The bartender turns and goes back to the bar in the front room.
The ship's horn is heard again.
There is a knock at the door.
Sarah sits alone in the darkened room, dressed in her robe and slip, lost in a drunken half-sleep.
She goes to the door and opens it.
Her eyes are puffy, her face is covered with perspiration.
She opens the door, then looks up to see him leaning against the wall, his arms tucked into his chest, with one hand covering the other.
Sarah is stunned and moves to him.
She takes him in her arms.
He starts to cry.
She holds him.
Sarah watches as Eddie, both hands now encased in plaster casts, tries to sleep.
He tries to move his arms, as if trying to defend himself.
Sarah rises, joins him, and strokes his head.
They are seated at the breakfast table.
Sarah pours him some coffee and he tries to bring the cup to his lips, but he cannot manage it.
Disgusted, he drops the cup on the floor and gets up from the table.
Sarah bends down and patiently wipes up the spilled coffee.
The apartment is now clean and neat.
And Sarah is sober.
She is at her table, typing, while Eddie stands at the window, trying to reach over his shoulder to scratch his back.
He comes over to the table and, with his mouth, picks a cigarette out of the pack.
He looks quickly at her, without asking directly for the match.
She lights it and, as she does, he glances at the sheet in the typewriter.
He starts to unbutton his shirt and Sarah immediately gets up to help.
But he holds her off.
She watches him struggle with the button for a while then spread his arms in a gesture of helplessness.
As she unbuttons his shirt for him, he takes her face in his hands and kisses her.
Sarah and Eddie emerges from the doorway.
It is a warm, beautiful day, and Sarah has a basket with her.
Eddie seems happy to be out with her, almost as if he has forgotten the casts on his hands.
They stop at a spot that overlooks the river and spread out a blanket.
Eddie leans back on the grass and looks at Sarah.
They both seem easy and relaxed in the sunshine together.
Eddie lowers his eyes and leans back.
Eddie just stares at her.
Eddie is about to knock on the door to Sarah's apartment.
He stops for a moment to look at his hands.
The casts are off.
He knocks on the door with his wrist, as he would if he still had them on.
When she opens the door he holds them up boyishly before her face.
She kisses his hands.
Eddie flexes his fingers, then tries out a shot on one of Johnny's pool tables.
He uses the simpler, open hand bridge to support his cue.
Bert Gordon enters, and watches him play.
Bert smiles at Eddie.
It is a quiet, elegant restaurant, one with soft piano music and subdued lighting.
Eddie and Sarah had walked past it the first day they met.
Eddie and Sarah enter.
She has on new dress and Eddie, looking a little ill at ease, has on a suit and tie.
The headwaiter seats them at a table.
Eddie and Sarah exchange smiles.
A waiter approaches.
Suddenly she breaks into laughter.
The waiter returns with the bottle of sherry and holds it out to Eddie for his approval.
There is a long pause as Eddie looks from the bottle to the waiter.
Finally, Eddie realizes he must respond.
The waiter pours out the sherry as Eddie and Sarah stare at each other over their glasses.
Then Eddie looks away.
Sarah proposes a toast.
They touch glasses.
The waiter brings the check.
Eddie nods and drinks down the last of his brandy as the waiter leaves.
Sarah sees that Eddie seems somber, preoccupied.
She picks up her purse and gloves and leaves.
It is raining heavily.
Sarah emerges from the building and leans wearily against the awning.
Eddie, having hurriedly paid the bill, follows after her.
He catches up with Sarah, taking her by the arm, and stepping out into the street to hail a cab.
She angrily breaks away from him and walks out into the rain.
Eddie grabs Sarah and starts to pull her back under the awning.
The door opens and the two of them enter, thoroughly drenched.
She walks to a chair, limping noticeably.
He reaches across and pulls her to him, burying his face in her head.
Bert Gordon leans on the hood of a cab.
His face drops when he sees Eddie and Sarah walking toward him.
Eddie cares two suitcases and his leather cue case.
He sets the suitcases on the curb and the cab driver moves to take them.
Courteously, Bert opens the door of the taxi for Eddie and Sarah.
Sarah eyes Bert distrustfully and starts to get in the cab.
Eddie, Sarah, and Bert squeeze through the door of the train compartment.
The redcap exits, carrying the luggage.
Eddie shuts the door.
Bert and Sarah sit across from each other.
The Kentucky-bound train rolls down the track.
Bert and Eddie finish their breakfast coffee in the dining room.
Sarah is in the washroom.
Sarah makes her way down the aisle and joins them at the table.
She stands there, lips pursed, absorbing the insult.
Bert gets up and reaches in his pocket for his billfold.
Eddie and Sarah just stare at him.
They are at a table, sipping drinks.
Bert shuffles a deck of cards as he talks.
Eddie, like a schoolboy, listens intently.
Sarah sits apart, watching them both.
Eddie glances at Sarah who stares mutely at Bert.
Eddie reaches across to light Bert's cigarette with the lighter Sarah gave him.
Bert's own lighter is on the table, before him.
Sarah sees it, picks it up, and sparks it into flame.
Bert goes back to shuffling his deck of cards.
The lobby is thronged with gamblers and their women, sportsmen, tourists, all there for the Derby.
A jazz combo can be heard over the din of their voices.
Eddie, looking excited, leads Sarah through the crowd.
Behind them is Bert, his face now shaded by dark glasses, following a bellhop to the main desk.
He forces his way through some people to get to the desk.
Bert displays a neatly folded wad of money in his hand.
Eddie laughs and moves toward the open door leading to the billiard rooms.
His face glows as he watches the flow of men moving in and out of the crowded room, and hears the sound of clicking pool balls.
He tucks his cue case under his arm and turns to Bert and Sarah who join him.
Sarah turns toward the elevators, with Bert behind her, jiggling his keys.
The bellboy unlocks the door and Sarah enters.
The doors to the other suite are open.
As she catches sight of Bert arranging things with the bellboy she closes one door.
The bellboy leaves as she moves to close the other.
He comes to the door, holding it open.
He turns away.
There is a long pause as he glares at her.
He goes back into his room.
She closes the door and leans against it.
Screams are heard as the horses jerk out of the starting gate to begin their runs.
Eddie cashes in a winning ticket.
Eddie moves through the ornate racetrack bar to join Sarah at a table.
Sarah has been drinking.
As she puts the money in her purse, Bert sits down.
We see Findley, studying his program and holding a drink in his hand.
He is tall and refined, with a pale, debauched, yet oddly youthful face that some men of forty or more sometimes have.
A cork-tipped cigarette dangles from his fingers.
Findley spots Bert, takes a long drag on his cigarette, and saunters toward them.
Bert points to Eddie.
Bert snaps his fingers, pretending to forget Findley's name.
He nods to them all, and leaves.
Sarah gives Bert a look.
The camera tilts upward from a Dixieland combo blaring out a bouncy tune to find Sarah, descending the stairs, looking on at the party below.
Holding the rail with one hand, and a champagne glass in the other, she maneuvers her way down the steps.
She stops a waitress on the way upstairs and exchanges her glass for a new one.
We follow her unsteady, doll-like descent.
She moves slowly, dreamily past the combo.
she moves past Eddie, who is cornered by a chic blonde in a low-cut dress
she moves past Findley, alone with his drink, observing his guests; past the bleary-eyed couples on the dance floor, until she comes to the bar.
Bert is there too, his head bobbing to the Dixie beat, his eyes running over her body so plainly covered by a cotton print dress.
Spinning away from him, she takes her glass and goes to a corner of the room.
Bert walks casually to her side.
He leans over and whispers something in her ear.
Her face hardens.
Angrily she turns and throws her champagne in his face and smashes her glass on the floor.
Then she starts to cry and starts to fall, but Bert holds her up by the shoulders.
The music stops.
The dance couples strain to get a look at what has happened.
Eddie shoves through the gawking crowd.
Eddie tries to take her in his arms, but she beats on his chest, sobbing, unable to make words.
Eddie drags her limp, trembling body across the dance floor to the stairs.
Bert watches them go, wiping the champagne off his coat lapels.
The music starts up again.
A Negro maid sits patiently in the room, watching over Sarah and the coats that Sarah is lying on.
A woman enters and, disgusted, pushes Sarah off her fur coat.
Eddie appears in the doorway.
The woman takes her coat and leaves.
Eddie looks at Sarah for a moment, then turns and walks out.
Findley, drink and cork-tipped cigarette in hand, escorts Bert and Eddie down the stairs to his game room.
It is a beautifully appointed salon, wood-paneled, filled with plush divans and decorated with terra cotta Roman statuary.
In the center of the room is the billiard table, now covered by a cloth.
Findley goes to the bar.
Eddie eagerly pulls back the cloth that covers the table.
But it's not a pool table -- it's a billiard table.
Eddie finishes uncovering the table.
Bert takes a seat.
Findley has a mischievous look on his face as he brings out a cloth bag and pours out the three billiard balls on the table.
Eddie shoots.
His red ball ricochets off the shoulder and returns to kiss the third ball.
Findley steps up to the bar, leaving Bert and Eddie alone.
Findley points to a statue on a table behind the couch.
It is a figure of Pan, with horns sticking up through his curly head, and the legs of a goat extending down below his waist.
Findley completes a shot, then lays his cue gently on the table and goes to the bar.
Eddie, his coat off, rubs his hand nervously.
Bert turns his back on Eddie and joins Findley at the bar.
Eddie stands helplessly for a moment.
Findley pours a drink as Eddie approaches.
He reaches in his pocket, then remembers that he gave his money to Sarah.
He bounds up the stairs.
He bursts into the room, goes past Sarah, stretched out on the bed, and takes the money out of her purse.
She is facing away from him but her eyes are open.
She listens to him as he shuts the door loudly on his way out.
Eddie leaps down the stairs, two at a time.
Bert eyes Eddie with controlled rage as the two get ready to play again.
A game has just ended as Sarah quietly descends the stairs.
She stands at the rail, listening.
Bert sits with his shoes up on the couch.
Eddie turns and sees her.
His eyes are shut tight; his balled-up fists rub against his temples.
A stunned Eddie moves to the billiard table.
Defeated, Sarah turns and goes up the stairs.
The men return to the table to continue their game.
Bert, deeply satisfied, puts on his coat and sits to watch the action.
A shaken Findley flops into a leather swivel chair.
A bucket of iced champagne sits on the desk, ready to be emptied.
Findley puffs on his cigarette as he looks at the impatient face of Bert, slouching in the chair across from him.
Eddie leans against a wall nearby.
He is quiet, morose.
Eddie moves to leave.
Findley and Bert watch him go.
Eddie waits for Bert to come down the stairs.
Eddie abruptly turns and walks out of the house.
Bert watches him for a moment then follows.
Bert enters his suite, removes his overcoat, then looks at the door that divides his room from Sarah's.
He seems hesitant, unsure of himself.
He pours himself a drink and downs it in one gulp, walks to the door, listens, and opens it himself without knocking.
Sarah is there, seated primly on the bed.
There is a drink in her hand, and a suitcase beside her on the bed.
Bert enters her suite and confronts her.
Sarah's voice is subdued, controlled.
He stands over her, pulling a wad of bills from his pocket.
He picks her up and tries to kiss her but she is cold and limp in his arms, so he lets go and she drops back on the bed.
Then he turns and walks back into his room.
She waits for a moment.
Then she takes a cigarette out of a pack, gets up, and goes into his room.
In the bathroom mirror we see Bert asleep on his bed.
The sheets are rumpled and tossed about.
Then we see Sarah, in her slip, enter the bathroom and shut the door.
Eddie is just getting back.
He walks through the lobby, ignoring the uniformed policeman standing nearby, and stops at the desk.
The concierge stares dumbly.
The concierge hands it to him.
Eddie walks quickly toward the elevators.
He enters, sees the money on Sarah's bed, puts down his cue case, and turns to see a crowd in the adjoining room.
Bert, laying in bed, talks to a plainclothesman who stands over him, taking notes.
A photographer with a flash camera stands by the bathroom.
Bert stops when he sees Eddie through the open door.
A uniformed policeman bars Eddie's entrance.
Eddie comes in.
He looks at the detectives around Bert's bed.
The photographer's bulb flashes as he takes a picture of the bathroom.
Eddie pushes by the photographer, then stops as he sees Sarah's body laid out on the tiled floor.
He drops to his knees beside her.
Eddie reaches out to touch her, then pulls back his hand.
Bert appears at the bathroom door behind him.
Eyes closed, he writhes as he listens to Bert.
Suddenly he uncoils and lunges at Bert, grasping him by the throat and pushing him back.
A policeman untangles them, but Eddie breaks free.
Minnesota Fats sits in his chair, engrossed in the afternoon paper.
Big John is at a pool table, trying out a few shots.
Bert, in dark glasses, stands near the cashier's cage, chucking dice into a leather shaker.
The noise of the dice echoes in the slow, late afternoon gloom of Ames.
When Bert sees Eddie push open the glass doors, he draws himself up fearfully like a turtle, and motions with his eyes to his men for protection.
Eddie, his cue case tucked under his arm, walks straight toward him.
He stops, stares at him for a moment, then turns and walks over to Minnesota Fats.
Fats rises, ready to play.
Eddie starts to screw his cue together.
He turns to join Fats at the table.
The balls are already racked and ready.
Willie collects their stake money and prepares to toss the coin.
Preacher, Big John draw up their chairs around the table.
Bert also takes a seat, but far away, near the coat rack.
Willie taps Fats on the lapel.
It's his break.
Sausage sends the cue ball down the table and the game begins at once.
Fats makes a good break, leaving the cue ball teetering over the far corner pocket.
Eddie looks at the lineup of the balls.
Then he sets down his cue and walks over to the washroom.
He glances at Bert as he sprinkles the powder on his hands.
He turns and snatches up his cue.
He rams a bank shot into the pack.
The one ball rolls in, while others scatter about the table.
The crowd applauds.
Eddie moves swiftly to his next shot.
As he plays, he talks to Bert.
Bert and Fats exchange glances.
Eddie returns to his game and Fats waits for his turn, puffing steadily on his cigarette.
Bert shifts uneasily in his chair and we hear the pool balls knock together, then slowly roll down the track through the belly of the table.
The shot goes in.
Eddie looks significantly at Fats who lowers his eyes and puffs on his cigarette.
The balls are racked.
Eddie sinks shots right and left -- some tricky, some not.
Bert and Fats exchange uneasy looks.
Eddie circles the table like a hawk.
Then, Fats is up; his jacket is off, his tie is pulled loose.
He makes a shot, chalks his cue.
It's a hard shot and he misses.
Eddie moves to take his shot, ignoring Fats altogether.
Bert looks on.
But Eddie is shooting pool now, making all his shots quickly and accurately.
A depressed Fats watches him shoot.
The clock over the door reads six o'clock.
Fats is still in his seat.
He has a drink in his hand.
Eddie slips into the jacket, helped by Preacher.
Eddie unscrews his cue, thinking it over.
Bert's bodyguards stand around, waiting for the word.
Fats listens, his head bowed.
Bert's men start to move forward but he stops them with a gesture of his hand.
He tries to smile.
A friendly smile.
Eddie puts away his cue.
Eddie just stares at Bert, then looks over at the downcast face of Minnesota Fats.
Fats looks up at Eddie.
Eddie takes his cue case and heads for the door.
He stops for a moment, looks around at the rows of empty tables, and goes out.
Then Ames returns to normal.
Fats puts on his coat; Henry sweeps up.
And Bert takes his seat again on his throne overlooking Ames, sipping his glass of milk.
His eyes travel to the window.
DON, his back toward Wick, is bent over the suitcase, packing.
Don has crossed to the chest of drawers and fished out more shirts and socks.
Bent forward tensely, he watches Wick go into the living room.
Left alone, he acts with lightning rapidity.
He takes the sweater, goes over to the window, pulls up the whiskey bottle, wraps the sweater around it so that only the top with the string around it shows.
He tries to loosen the noose but he's nervous and loses a precious second.
From the living room has been coming the sound of Wick opening the closet door and ransacking.
Don sees he can't loosen the string in time.
In the last fraction of a second before Wick enters, he manages to lower the bottle back down the wall.
With what nonchalance he can muster he bends down and looks under the bed just as Wick enters, a sheaf of white paper in his hand.
He pulls out a Remington portable, model.
He puts it in Don's suitcase.
He goes toward the door while the bell resumes short, short, long, short.
From the bedroom we see him open the door.
She enters breathlessly.
It's HELEN, all right.
Seeing him, she crosses to the bedroom.
She is a clean-cut, good looking girl of twenty-six.
In her hand are two books wrapped, and another small package.
Her face is brave, gay piquant.
She's wearing a three-quarter- length leopard coat.
The Indian Summer day is a good ten degrees too warm for the coat, but that doesn't stop Helen from wearing her beloved.
She puts the packages in the suitcase.
It's a running gag between these two.
Don bends so that she can kiss him on the cheek.
She kisses him.
His face is now close to hers.
Something flickers in Don's eye.
Wick looks up.
There is an exchange of suspicious looks between Wick and Helen.
Wick, who has been smoking a cigarette throughout the scene, throws it out the window.
None of the three see, but we do, that it doesn't fall out the window but ricochets against the opened casement to the window sill, where it lies smouldering.
Furious, Don takes a bunch of keys from his pocket.
His eyes fall on the cigarette still smouldering on the sill.
Wick turns away.
He goes toward the window.
Don, held by Helen, watches him tensely.
Wick flips the cigarette into the garden and is about to turn back into the room when his eyes fall on the cleat and the string.
He leans from the window.
Helen, sensing something amiss, looks from one brother to the other.
Don lets Helen go, staring at Wick, panic in his eyes.
Helen and Wick watch Don.
Don's face relaxes into an innocent grin.
His eyes meet Helen's.
Hers are infinitely distressed.
Wick has twisted the string off the bottle.
Wick, the bottle in his hand, goes through the living room toward the kitchenette.
Don looks after him, then follows him, a stubborn smile on his lips.
Wick has stepped to the sink.
He opens the bottle, turns it upside down and lets the whiskey run out.
Helen trails after them, acutely embarrassed.
Don and Helen come to the door from the living room and stand watching.
Don has something of the feeling of a man watching the execution of a very good friend, but he senses Helen's eyes upon him and preserves his nonchalant expression.
The bottle emptied, Wick puts it in the sink.
Wick shrugs and goes to the hall for his hat.
She kisses him on the mouth, a woman hopelessly in love.
She turns to go, but Don holds her back.
Then, so that he won't see her moist eyes, she turns and hurries into the entrance hall.
Wick turns toward Don, who has followed Helen to the entrance hall.
Helen comes out quickly and taking a handkerchief from her bag, hurries past Wick into the hall.
Wick stands, hat in hand, holding the door open.
He goes out, shutting the door behind him.
Don steps quickly to the door, presses his ear against it to hear what the two are saying outside.
It is narrow and simple.
Every so often down the stair there is a light bracket, always burning.
A skylight, somewhat obscured by dirt and dust, lights the fourth floor back.
They descend a few steps.
Wick takes her arm quickly.
They go on down the stairs.
Don stands at the door, panic in his face.
Has his brother discovered the other two bottles? He puts the chain on the door to insure his privacy, then dashes into the bathroom.
Don dashes in, takes a nail file, kneels beside the grille of a register in the side wall, pries it out with the file, looks inside, puts his hand in.
He looks at the hole wide-eyed, pushes back the grille and runs out.
Don comes running in, goes to the couch, pulls it away from the wall, throws himself on his belly on the couch and reaches under the side of it which was towards the wall.
His hand explores among the springs.
He sits up.
His face is covered with sweat.
He takes out his handkerchief and wipes his face.
Just then, from the direction of the entrance door, there is the noise of a key being turned in the lock.
It opens as far as the chain will allow, stops with a sharp bite of metal on wood.
Don freezes, his eyes turning towards the door, horrified.
He rises slowly from the couch, takes a few steps towards the entrance door.
At the door stands MRS. FOLEY, a middle-aged charwoman with a large utility bag over her arm.
He stands galvanized.
He goes to the kitchenette.
On the counter under the cupboards stands the sugar bowl.
Don lifts the lid.
There's nothing but sugar in the bowl, but lining the lid is a folded five-dollar bill.
Don takes it out, goes into the entrance hall and even though Mrs. 
Foley can't see him, instinctively holds the five dollars behind his back.
She closes the door, takes the key and starts down the stairs.
He looks at it, folds it neatly, pockets it, puts on his hat, then, with an afterthought, goes into the living room.
THE CAMERA MOVES slowly toward them so that only about eight bottles fill the screen and we can see, between them, the shop, its window on Third Avenue, its entrance door.
THE CAMERA IS BEHIND the rack of liquor in a store on Third Avenue.
Through the glass door we see Don Birnam hurrying up.
He peers into the shop to make sure there are no other customers, then quickly steps inside and stands breathing heavily.
He gives a quick glance in each direction, to see that he's not observed.
A salesman rises in the foreground, his back to the CAMERA.
Don points to two bottles in the foreground.
The salesman has taken two bottles from the rack in the foreground and put them on the counter.
Don gives him the money and picks up the bottles like a miser grabbing gold.
The salesman hands him a bag and steps out of the shot towards the cash register.
Meanwhile, Don thrusts the bottles in the bag.
The salesman hands him his change.
It is a little short and the necks of the bottles protrude.
Don pockets it.
Don takes the package and walks past the newcomer towards the door, hiding it from him gracefully, like a football in a sneak play.
Don comes out with the bottles in the paper bag.
Don stops.
In front of it is a fruit stand.
Screening his gesture from the ladies with his back, he picks up three apples and puts them in the top of the bag, to camouflage the bottles.
He puts down a coin, then walks down the street toward the ladies, flaunting a paper bag which is obviously full of apples.
The lady with the dog sees him.
He wants to start down the street but about twenty-five feet away stand two middle-aged Hokinson ladies, one of them kerbing her dog on a leash.
Don removes his hat in a courtly bow, very much at ease with the apples.
They both look after Don.
Don passes the ladies.
They are chatting.
The other lady tsk-tsks.
Don sits on a bar stool, putting down the paper bag.
He takes the bills and change from his pocket, puts it on the bar.
Nat pours the drink, then returns to squeezing lemons.
Don picks up the glass, is suddenly acutely aware of the people at the table, of Nat's eyes.
The glass freezes halfway to his mouth.
He puts it down and starts playing the nonchalant, casual drinker -- the man who can take it or leave it.
He takes a pack of cigarettes from his pocket and shakes one out, lights it.
As he puts the match in the ashtray, his eyes fall on that jigger of whiskey.
He puts the handkerchief back in his pocket, lifts the glass and drains it in one gulp.
Nat has come up with the bar towel to wipe off the wet ring left by the glass.
He holds the empty jigger in his hand.
From the table in the background comes Gloria, headed for the powder room.
Passing Don, she runs her finger through the neckline of his hair.
She goes on.
Don turns back to Nat.
He points at the bag with the apples showing.
Nat looks, but doesn't get it.
Like a magician, Don takes two apples out, revealing the necks of the bottles.
Nat pulls one.
Nat leans over the bar towards.
He points to the empty glass for Nat to fill it.
Without a change of expression, Nat pours the second drink.
Gloria is back from the powder room.
On her way to her gentleman friend at the table, she runs her finger through the neckline of Don's hair.
She is almost past him when he catches her hand and pulls her towards him.
Don looks off toward the table.
She returns to the table.
THE CAMERA is on the wet rings which the wet glass has left on the bar.
In two QUICK DISSOLVES we see the five rings, then six, then nine.
He puts the robe with the slippers inside it into the case.
Wick slams shut the suitcase, snaps the lock.
Wick takes his suitcase, goes into the living room.
Helen follows him.
Wick comes into the living room, sets down the suitcase and during the ensuing scene takes a topcoat from the closet.
Helen turns away from Wick, leans against the wall, hoping he won't see that she's crying.
Don, an empty jigger in his hand, stands at the same spot, only now leaning with his back against the bar.
The place is about half filled -- eight customers at the bar, five tables occupied.
It is dusk.
The electric lights are on.
Suddenly Don pounds the bar and explodes.
The bar is silent except for the sizzling noise of the eggs and ham.
Nat brings over the plate of ham and eggs.
Nat pours a jiggerful.
Don downs it.
Nat fills it.
Then sits down to his ham and eggs.
He drinks his jiggerful.
He taps the glass on the bar.
From the street enters Gloria, wearing a shirtwaist and skirt, another foolish little hat, and high-heeled shoes with bows.
He pours another drink.
A man has entered the bar, a round-faced, middle-aged man with pince-nez.
With his thumb, Nat indicates Gloria.
He takes a couple of steps towards the door, turns.
There is a Guide of New York sticking from his pocket.
He walks out, bewildered.
He downs the jigger of rye.
Nat does break down and pours a drink.
He takes off his hat and shakes the rain from it, then peels off his raincoat.
They are wearing raincoats, carrying umbrellas.
He is alone and wears a bowler and a straight raincoat.
A crowd of people is streaming into the building.
It is doing a land-office business, checking dripping umbrellas and apparel.
With a quick gesture he transfers the bottle to the pocket of the raincoat, rolls the raincoat up like swaddling clothes around a precious infant.
In the side pocket of his suit is a pint of liquor.
Among the crowd is Don Birnam.
Don hands his coat to an attendant.
His eyes linger on its pocket with a certain tenderness, then he turns and starts towards the door of the auditorium.
Seeing an opening in the line at the cloak room counter, he steps into it.
Don sits about five seats from the aisle.
He sits between an elderly daughter and her age-old mother, and a middle-aged man and wife.
He is glancing through the program as the curtain rises (changing the light on our group).
Don looks up.
Thirst in his eyes, he looks away from the stage, tries to concentrate on the ceiling of the Metropolitan.
Powdered footmen are pouring wine into the glasses of the over-vivacious guests.
Alfred and Violetta are batting the drinking song back and forth, as the chorus, glasses in hand, stands slowly swaying, echoing each couplet.
As he looks at the stage, his imagination is working at top speed.
The first drops of sweat are gathering on his forehead.
He takes the handkerchief from his pocket and wipes his forehead.
The swaying echelon of choristers SLOWLY DISSOLVES to a row of raincoats, exactly like the one Don wore.
They hang from hangers and sway slowly to Verdi's rhythm.
His eyes glued to what he sees on the stage.
The raincoats swaying slowly.
THE CAMERA APPROACHES one of them.
From the pocket projects a bottle of whiskey.
He is wiping his parched mouth.
He puts the handkerchief back.
He fishes the coat check from his pocket, buries it in his fist, fighting the foolish impulse.
He rises and, to the irritation of his neighbors, leaves his seat amid some disapproving shushings from the row behind.
He puts the check on the counter.
The attendant looks up from a newspaper.
The attendant takes the check and leaves.
Don rolls his program and sticks it into the sand of the cuspidor.
The attendant returns.
The attendant holds a short leopard coat and a lady's small umbrella.
Don looks.
Don's nervousness is mounting.
He is biting his lips, unable to find another argument.
He shoves the leopard coat and umbrella close to Don.
The attendant has returned to the other end of the counter and resumed his doze.
He takes his coat rather brusquely, thrusts the leopard coat at her.
Don takes the coat, feels it hurriedly to make sure the bottle is still there, and starts away.
Helen is left with the leopard coat and his bowler.
Don comes back, takes the hat, starts away again.
His patience exhausted, Don stops again, takes the umbrella and tosses it in Helen's direction.
Helen, who is getting into her coat, can't catch it.
It falls right next to her.
Don stands abashed.
He goes back, picks up the umbrella.
As they go on talking, they walk from the cloak room, through the vestibule, to the street, Don carrying his coat over his arm.
There is a split second of indecision but it is ended by Don's awareness of the bottle in his raincoat.
He is unfurling his raincoat in order to put it on before he steps from under the marquee.
Helen is about a step and a half away when there is a crash.
On the sidewalk lies the pint of whiskey, broken.
She stops and looks down, as does Don.
She goes.
Don looks at the broken bottle, then after Helen.
With sudden decision he calls after her.
It is dark and the rain has settled to a drizzle.
He joins her, takes the umbrella out of her hand and holds it over them both as they go down the street.
As we have left it, empty save for Nat and Don.
Sunlight outside.
Nat is now taking the chairs from the tables and arranging the bar for the afternoon and evening trade, while Don leans back against the bar, the jigger of whiskey in his hand, and goes on talking.
Don drinks.
It is filled with the routine activity of a big commercial hotel on a hot summer day.
He keeps eyeing the doors to the elevators.
Don Birnam, in a light summer suit, paces up and down the lobby.
Under his arm is a florist's box.
He walks toward one of those circular plush settees common to hotels, sits down, puts the flower box next to him and adjusts the knot of his tie, his eye still on the elevator doors.
On the other side of the settee are a middle-aged couple.
Don can't see them, they can't see him, as he overhears their conversation, and it takes him a little time to realize that they are Helen's parents.
MR. ST. JAMES is wearing a linen suit and a good but yellowing panama hat, the brim turned up.
MRS. ST. JAMES is a cheerful little woman with glasses pinned to her dress, the kind that pull.
He leans his head against the back of the settee, acutely uncomfortable.
Mr. St. James is fuming a little.
Mrs. St. James laughs comfortably.
He picks up the florist's box, rises and moves away from the settee.
When he has reached the security of some potted palms, he looks back.
Through one of the revolving doors comes Helen, in a new spring suit.
She looks around, sees her parents, goes up to them.
There is a greeting, some conversation apparently about Don and the fact that he'll get there any minute.
Don stands undecided, then looks around, locates the public telephone booths, steps into one of them.
Don deposits a nickel and dials the number of the Hotel Manhattan, which is above the mouthpiece of the phone.
He holds the phone and looks through the glass door of the telephone booth.
Helen rises and follows him over to the line of house phones on a shelf.
She picks up the phone, speaks.
Helen has hung up too.
She goes towards her parents, her face a little crestfallen.
As she joins them she evidently starts to explain.
Don emerges with the florist's box, careful not to be seen.
He leaves through one of the side doors.
In the dim fore- ground stands a small table, beyond it the vague contours of Don lying on the couch.
A key is turned in the lock, and Wick enters.
On the floor beside him an empty bottle, in his hand a half-filled glass.
He switches on the light in the little entrance hall, flips his hat jauntily to a hook on the coat-rack and comes into the living room.
As he crosses the threshold he becomes aware of Don's presence.
Don puts his arm over his face.
He wears a hat and carries a brief-case.
Wick throws the briefcase into a chair.
Wick snaps off the light.
From now on the scene plays in dimness, save for the shaft of light from the entrance hall.
Wick goes and sits beside Don, takes the glass from his hand.
Wick has bent over Don and loosened his tie.
Paying no attention to the sound of steps which has been coming from the staircase, Wick rises, puts the glass of whiskey on the table and is about to cross towards the telephone when the doorbell rings -- short, short, long, short.
Wick freezes.
Don sits up on the couch.
Don, clinging to Wick's arm, pulls himself up.
Wick pushes him through the doorway to the dark bedroom, closing the door after him.
He snaps on the lights in the living room, rolls the empty bottle under the couch, takes the glass of whiskey, puts it behind the pile of records.
As he is starting towards the door, the bottle rolls from under the couch.
From under the couch has rolled the bottle.
Wick stops and rolls it back again, then goes into the hall and opens the door.
As Helen speaks, he tries to get near it without her noticing.
Suddenly she sees Wick trying to kick the bottle back under the couch.
He walks over to the records and picks up the glass.
He stands with his head against the door post, listening, harassed.
Helen comes into the living room.
He takes a drink.
Wick stands, the glass of whiskey in his hand, startled taut at the sight of Don who comes in, not too steady on his feet.
Almost at the door to the entrance hall, Helen turns back.
Helen comes back into the room, staring at Don.
She is beginning to realize that he's drunk.
Don looks at the glass in Wick's hand.
He takes the glass out of Wick's hand.
He opens the drawer, takes out two bullets, holds them in the palm of his hand.
Helen looks at him for a second, then takes off her hat and throws it into a nearby chair.
Wick goes into the kitchenette.
She raises herself to her tiptoes and kisses him warmly.
Nat and Don alone.
Nat is behind the bar, putting tooth-picks into olives which he takes from a bowl and arranges in a row on a plate.
Don jumps up.
He jumps up, runs back to the bookcase, starts pulling out books, row by row.
He goes to the closet, opens it wide, pulls out all its contents, throwing them on the floor.
He goes back to the big chair, throws himself down, exhausted.
His eyes fall again on the empty bottle and the empty glass.
Something is written on it but it is distorted by the glass.
Behind the glass lies the folder of matches.
However, it attracts Don's attention enough to make him push the glass to one side.
The waiter takes the check which is thrust between his vest and his stiff shirt and puts it face down in front of Don, then hurries on with the tray of drinks.
Don turns the check over.
He puts his hand in his pocket and pulls out what cash he has.
He hasn't enough -- only two one-dollar bills and some small change.
At that moment the waiter returns, expecting to be paid.
Taking the check, the waiter leaves.
Next him the couple is cooing away like Spring, -- but on the bench between him and the girl lies her bag.
There must be some money in that bag.
The man is whispering something into the girl's ear.
She is shaking her head.
Don looks around the room, his plan forming.
As though inadvertently, he drops his hand on the bench beside the bag.
It's a handsome leather bag with gold initials, M. M.
The bag moves very close to his coat.
Don pulls the purse imperceptibly closer to himself.
Now, switching his cigarette, Don crosses his other arm so he can pull the bag up under his coat.
He pulls it to his armpit and holds it there, tucked close to his ribs.
Very calmly Don smokes his cigarette, a great gentleman.
The waiter comes back with the drink.
Guests and waiters are passing by.
He points to a door at the other end of the room.
There is a tiny puzzled look from the waiter as Don walks slowly towards the wash room.
The waiter pulls the table away for him.
Don starts to rise.
It's a two-wash-basin affair, with a colored attendant who, as Don enters, is brushing a customer.
Don carries the bag under his open coat by the pressure of his upper arm.
Between his fingers is a cigarette, so that the whole thing looks fairly natural.
As Don picks up the cake of soap, he watches the attendant get a polishing rag and bend down to dust off his shoes.
He puts down the cake of soap, pulls out the bag, opens it.
There, between a compact, lipstick and keyes, are some bills.
He fishes out a ten-dollar bill, thrusts it in his pocket and is about to close the purse when he sees the carnations.
He can't help smiling at the idea which flashes into his mind.
He takes one of the carnations, puts it into the purse, closes the purse and thrusts it back under his coat.
Just as the attendant straightens up, Don puts both hands into the water.
The attendant holds out a towel, Don wipes his hands.
He looks at Don's lapel, mystified.
Don tips the attendant with a fifty-cent piece.
The attendant doesn't get the joke but chuckles automatically and opens the door into the bar.
Don walks from the wash room, slowly towards his table.
Suddenly he stops.
Don looks around.
They're staring at Don.
Near the little piano stands Don's waiter, the head waiter, the piano player and the lovers.
In fact, he's suddenly aware that he is the focus of every eye in the room.
M.M.'s escort is right at him, grabbing him by the coat.
He takes the bag out from under his coat and hands it to the lady.
M. M.'s escort snatches it from his hand.
Don holds out the bill.
He fishes what money he has left from his pocket.
The waiter snaps it up.
By this time they've got Don to the door.
The headwaiter gets Don's hat from the checkroom girl's hand.
He puts it on Don's head, the bouncer pulls him through the door.
The bouncer, dragging Don from Harry's and Joe's, gives him one last shove down the street.
Don comes to a stop and leans heavily against an iron railing, wiping his face with his hand.
He straightens his hat, looks back.
The doorman and the taxi drivers are staring after him.
Don turns, straightens himself as best he can and starts for home, shame weighing down every limb.
A line of waiting taxis along the brilliantly lighted night club street.
It is meanly lighted by the wall brackets.
The newspaper, the bottle of milk, Helen's note -- are all as they were.
Don drags himself up the last few steps, unlocks the door and goes in, leaving paper, bottle and note untouched.
Don has entered.
Automatically he switches on the light in the corridor.
In a stupor of shame and misery he stumbles over to the living room couch, flings himself down on it and lies covering his face with his arms.
After a time he brushes the tears from his eyes with his sleeve and as he does so, catches sight of something which rivets his attention, brings a half-crazed smile to his lips.
On the ceiling is the shadow of the bottle which he hid in the light fixture.
With new strength Don gets to his feet, nervous laughter shaking him.
He pulls the coffee table under the light fixture, puts the chair on it, climbs up and retrieves his bottle.
He climbs down again, opening the bottle fiercely.
Don opens his eyes slowly.
Don gets up.
Steadying himself on the bedpost and holding the door frame, he slowly moves out of the bedroom.
Don enters.
Only the telephone, which stands on the desk next the open portable, is alive.
He seems to be going straight to the ringing telephone, only he isn't.
Don's eyes fall on the bottle and the glass by the big chair.
He moves slowly towards it, picks up the bottle, holds it upside down over the glass.
The living room is in the same wild disorder -- books on the floor, a table on the chair under the ceiling fixture, the couch moved from the wall, clothes and shoes spilled from the closet.
Two empty bottles and a sticky glass stand about, and the portable, with its almost virgin sheet of white paper in the roller.
Don goes to the glass, holds the two bottles upside down over it.
One slow drop is all it yields.
Two more meagre drops emerge, like thick syrup.
They barely stain the bottom of the glass.
Don puts down the two bottles, picks up the glass, empties the pitiable three drops into the parched desert of his throat.
What are his finances? Quickly he goes through his pockets.
In the palm of his hand there are exactly two cents.
He looks around the apartment.
There on the desk stands the typewriter.
Don walks towards it, rips the sheet of paper from the roller, slams the lid of the cover shut, picks up the typewriter.
He drags it to the little hall, picks up his hat and puts it on.
There are now two newspapers, two bottles of milk.
Don steps over them carefully, closes the door and starts down the stairs.
The note from Helen is still pinned to the door.
Don comes from the house with the typewriter.
A steel gate is drawn across its entrance.
Don stares at the obstruction, completely mystified.
Don turns to her.
There is a woman standing nearby, wheeling a baby in a baby carriage.
Don stands helpless for a moment, then, feeling the woman's intrusive stare, straightens up.
In the next block, miles and miles away for the way he feels, is another pawn shop.
He starts for it.
Again every step is agony.
Overhead the elevated thunders excruciatingly.
He makes a pillar of the el, leans against it, shaking.
When a trolley car gets out of his way, he continues to cross the street.
At last he makes the second pawn shop.
That pawn shop is closed too.
It too is closed.
Don takes a bar and shakes it.
He peers through the iron gate into the dark shop, turns around.
Across the street, in the same block, is the third pawn shop.
Sweat pours from his forehead.
The two men stand grinning.
He picks up the typewriter, turns and starts walking back.
THE CAMERA goes slowly up to a sidewalk clock with a diadem of three balls, which stands outside the hock shop.
The time is twenty minutes of one.
It says five minutes of four.
Nat is at the bar.
He and two or three customers are listening to race results on a little radio.
Don drags himself in, drenched in sweat, his breath as short and agonized as that of a dying man.
He goes to the end of the bar closest the door, hoists the typewriter on it with a final awful effort, leans his head on it.
He shoves the drink at Don.
Don is shaking so that he can't pick up the glass.
He bends down, sucks half of it, then lifts the glass, drains the rest.
He holds out the empty glass to Nat, his eyes imploring.
Don takes the typewriter, drags himself out of Nat's place.
Don emerges, starts dragging himself up the street towards home.
As he passes the antique shop, suddenly he stops.
There stands the wooden Indian Gloria spoke about, pointing up.
Don walks into the house.
Second floor, this same house.
This is a really crummy Third Avenue house -- dark woodwork, paint peeling from the walls.
Beside the door at the head of the stairs there are about three bells, for the several occupants of the apartment within.
Don drags himself up the stairs, puts down the typewriter and inspects the name tags by the bells.
Don rings the bell beside it.
Don rings again.
From inside comes.
The door is opened by Gloria.
She is wearing a dressing gown and bedroom slippers.
Her hair is the ruined elaborate hairdress of yesterday, and her eyes are blazing with anger.
She slips into the apartment, leaving the door about three inches a jar.
After a couple of seconds Gloria reappears with a wallet.
Don leans against the door jamb, breathing heavily.
She takes five dollars out, gives it to him.
Don takes it with a shaking hand.
She brushes his forehead with the back of her hand.
He takes her hand and kisses it.
Gloria looks at him, then at her hand.
He bends, picks up the typewriter and starts downstairs.
Gloria looks after him.
The man looks at Don but doesn't answer.
The man stands staring at him, terrified.
The man drifts away eerily.
From the opposite direction comes a male nurse.
He gets a pad and pencil from his pocket.
Don has risen.
He is wearing flannel pajamas like all the rest of the patients.
Bim stands quietly watching him, a great big grin on his face.
However he manages to make the swinging glass door.
Along the walls are benches and a collection of wheel-chairs.
They wear terry-cloth bathrobes over their pajamas, canvas slippers on their feet.
In the listless, burned-out collection, Don is the only person who moves with purpose.
There are canvas slippers on his feet.
Sitting on them and milling aimlessly around, are some thirty alcoholics.
It is L-shaped, about fourteen feet wide.
He goes around the bend of the ell and there is the door, a heavy wooden one with a grated peep-hole and beside it a uniformed guard.
Don goes to the door, tries to open it.
At this moment the door is opened by another male nurse, carrying a pile of clean sheets and pillow cases.
Don tries to take advantage of the opening of the door to get out, but the guard pulls him by the arm, while the entering nurse locks the door with his own key.
Don turns, At the bend of the corridor stands Bim, with a tumbler of medicine in his hand.
Don approaches him slowly.
He points at a man in a wheel-chair.
Bim seats Don on his bed.
He points to the man with the sensitive face, who stands against the wall.
It is lighted by a faint blue light, but the lights are on in the anteroom and some light comes through the glass doors.
On his cot lies Don, his eyes wide open.
Don pivots in the direction of the sound.
On a cot in the corner is the man with the sensitive face and the addiction to beetles.
He is slapping wildly at his bed, moaning.
He rises and begins to slap the wall and scream.
Don stares at him through the dimness.
Through the glass doors come two male nurses with flashlights.
They run to the cot of the D.T. victim.
There is a wild scrabble as he fights them off.
One of the nurses races back to the door and calls.
A third nurse races in, throws a straitjacket to the first nurse, hurries to one of the other beds.
Seen through the glass doors, a doctor comes running down the ante-room, followed by another male nurse with a cart on which are hypodermic syringes, etc.
He enters the ward and dashes in the direction of the beetle patient.
The doctor must have been in another building, because over his shoulders is flung a dark blue overcoat.
As he goes, he tosses the overcoat on the empty cot next Don.
Don looks after the doctor, then is fascinated by the coat lying beside him.
In the corner the three nurses and the doctor are working over the beetle patient, the doctor giving him a hypo, the nurses getting him into the straitjacket.
He looks at Don.
As his gaze reaches Don's pajama trousers and canvas slippers.
He picks up a bottle.
There is murder in his eyes.
The proprietor is completely under the spell of that terrible glance.
He hands over the bottle.
Don takes it and walks out.
Don enters, looks around the apartment, which is still in utter disorder.
The electric lights, burning on heedlessly, offend him and he snaps off the light switch.
Don, not noticing, walks to his big chair.
On the small table next it stand the three empty bottles.
He takes the new bottle from his pocket and, sinking into the big chair, starts opening it.
On the desk behind him, the telephone starts ringing.
He sweeps them to the floor.
Without winking an eyelash, he pours his glass half full, lifts it so that glass and hand obscure his face.
In the dark sits Don, passed out.
He opens his eyes, still in a half-stupor, stares straight before him.
The bottle next him is four-fifths empty.
Out of the corner of one eye he sees something and slowly and with difficulty turns his head.
In the wall above the couch, close to the door, there is a hole in the plaster, as if left by a large nail carelessly withdrawn so that some of the plaster went with it.
Out of the hole peers a small mouse.
At first Don draws back, repelled, but the mouse is such a friendly, harmless creature that after a moment his face relaxes and he half smiles at it.
Just as he does so, from the direction of the window there whirs past him a strange winged thing.
It is a bat, swooping in slow loops around the room.
Don crouches into the back of his chair, staring in wild distaste.
The top of the bat's hooked wing nicks his forehead as it speeds in swift but fluttering flight straight at the mouse.
Don stiffens against the back of his chair.
The bat has made another swoop and spread its wings over the mouse.
Beneath those black wings some hideous pygmy struggle is going on.
Apparently the bat has seized the mouse in its claws.
Don gives a cry of horror.
Now from behind the struggling wings comes a spurt of blood.
Don cries out so hard his throat seems to burst apart, buries his horrified eyes in the back of his chair.
She must have been listening from Don's first scream.
Sophie, standing beside her, is barking wildly.
From downstairs comes the barking of Mrs. Deveridge's dog.
Beyond her, the door to her apartment is open.
Don still cowers in his chair, his face hidden in his arms, his breathing heavy with terror.
From outside comes the sound of footsteps racing upstairs toward his door, then the door- bell: short, short, long short.
Don's eyes turn slowly toward the door.
Helen stands outside, ringing the bell.
She bangs on the door, rattling the doorknob helplessly.
Still no answer and she raps on the door.
He sits staring at the door, holding his breath not to betray his presence.
Don sits bathed in sweat, tears of terror in his eyes.
staring at the door.
She turns and runs down the stairs.
Mrs. Deveridge stands in her door, peering up.
She hurries to the stairwell and calls down it.
His eyes are on the door.
Now they focus ON THE DOOR CHAIN.
Don realizes he's forgotten to put it up, but it's not too late, is it? With a desperate effort he flings himself to the floor and starts inching his way to the door.
Don is almost at the door.
With his last strength Don raises himself against the door, stretches out his hand, gets the door chain, tries to slip it in its notch, but misses.
Dave, the janitor, a ring with labelled keys on it in his hand, leads Helen and Mrs. Deveridge up the stairs.
Dave has opened the door and holds it open as far as he can.
Don tries again, but by this time the door is open.
Don throws all his weight against the door but it is no use.
Helen slips into Dave's place in the doorway.
She stands waiting until Dave and Mrs. Deveridge start downstairs.
Helen enters, closing the door behind her.
A shaft of light comes from the corridor.
Don crouches behind the door.
She kneels down beside Don.
They are beside the light switch.
Helen snaps it on.
She leads Don toward it.
He stares at the smooth, unstained wall.
She seats him on the bed.
She turns on the bed lamp.
Don is panting hard, completely oblivious of the fact that Helen is in the room.
On the armchair near the kitchen door lies Helen's leopard coat.
Helen lies asleep on the couch, using the pillow and the comforter from Wick's bed.
In the door to the bedroom stands Don.
He wears the dark suit (the one he wore to the opera) and as his eyes shift from Helen to the coat, he is just tying his tie.
Very cautiously he begins to tiptoe toward the chair.
He picks up the leopard coat and starts towards the entrance door.
Just as he is slipping out, comes.
Don shuts the door behind him.
She flings open the door and runs out.
In the next second Helen hurries into the shot.
She is wearing Wick's foulard dressing gown.
Helen runs to the banister and looks down.
She is barefooted, just wearing the foulard dressing gown.
Don has already reached the second floor and is hurrying down the stairs, the fur coat over his arm, not paying any attention to Helen.
Don is just coming from it.
He walks down the street about ten steps when Helen comes up to him.
Don disregards her, tries to go on.
Helen overtakes him and blocks his way.
He goes on.
Helen stands looking after him for a moment, then turns angrily and proceeds toward the pawn shop.
The pawn broker has put Helen's coat on a hanger and is brushing it.
Helen enters, very matter-of-fact.
On it lies a revolver and the second page of a letter on which Don is writing.But amid all the grimness can we share one little joke, dear Wick: I did finish something, didn't I? Goodbye.
He puts down the pen, gets up, stands the letter conspicuously on the desk, picks up the revolver, gets the cartridges from the drawer and loads the gun.
As he has been out in the rain, his hair is still a little damp.
Don is seated at the desk.
With a last look at the room, he walks into the bathroom.
Don stands and looks at himself in the mirror, the gun in his hand.
He notices the unbuttoned points of his collar and with a rueful smile at the funny timing of his urge for tidiness, buttons one.
As he is buttoning the second, there is a sound from outside.
Startled, Don puts the gun into the empty wash bowl.
The door is being opened.
She looks around wildly.
She is breathing hard from her race to get there.
There is rain on her hair and her face, and her dress is wet.
Don comes from the bathroom.
Helen stands staring at him, wiping the rain from her face, and maybe some tears too.
She stands looking about.
He steps to the chest of drawers in the bedroom.
Helen, looking around desperately, sees something reflected in the shaving mirror: THE GUN IN THE WASH BOWL.
Before she can step toward it, Don is back with the scarf.
Helen goes to the umbrella stand, takes out the bottle.
She puts down the raincoat and the scarf and goes to the kitchen for a glass.
He picks up the raincoat and the scarf.
He bends down for a kiss.
Helen stands looking at him.
Helen holds out the glass.
She turns and runs into the bathroom and picks up the gun.
Don follows her.
Helen holds it behind her.
He half pushes, half leads her into the entrance hall.
A wave of weakness overcomes him and he sags against the door.
Don goes to the door and opens it.
Nat stands outside holding something under his wet raincoat.
He pulls out Don's typewriter.
Helen comes up.
Helen takes the typewriter, carries it toward the desk.
She puts a cigarette in his mouth, lights it.
She starts into the kitchen.
Helen goes into the kitchen, puts the gun away, runs water into the percolator.
She looks into the living room and her face freezes.
Don has risen from the couch and has picked up the glass of whiskey.
There's a second of hesitation, then he uses it for an ashtray, dropping the cigarette into it.
A smile of relief comes on Helen's face.
Don has sunk back on the couch again.
Helen enters the shot.
Only this time in reverse: We start with Don standing on that sunny day in the bedroom, packing.
THE CAMERA MOVES AWAY, GOES DOWN THE WALL to the bottle hanging there, and MOVES ON ALONG THE BACK OF THE FACADE OF THE APARTMENT to the splendid panorama of New York.
THE KID'S GRANDFATHER bursting into the room.
Kind of rumpled.
But the eyes are bright.
He has a wrapped package tucked under one arm as be immediately goes to The Kid, pinches his cheek.
The Mother ignores it, beats a retreat.
And she is gone.
There's an uncomfortable silence, then.
The Kid does.
He does his best to smile.
Suddenly passionate.
THE TWO OF THEM as the Grandfather sits in a chair by the bed.
The story he's reading about, as the monochromatic look of the bedroom is replaced by the dazzling color of the English countryside.
BUTTERCUP is standing, holding the reins of her horse, while in the background, WESTLEY, in the stable doorway, looks at her.
Buttercup is in her late teens; doesn't care much about clothes and she hates brushing her long hair, so she isn't as attractive as she might be, but she's still probably the most beautiful woman in the world.
Westley is perhaps half a dozen years older than Buttercup.
And maybe as handsome as she is beautiful.
He gazes at her as she walks away.
WESTLEY, outside, chopping wood.
Buttercup drops two large buckets near him.
She leaves; his eyes stay on her.
She stops, turns--he manages to look away as now her eyes stay on him.
Westley enters with an armload of firewood.
He gets it, hands it to her; they are standing very close to each other gazing into each other's eyes.
WESTLEY AND BUTTERCUP, outside his tiny hovel in the red glow of sunset.
They are locked in a passionate kiss.
They stand near the gate to the farm, locked in an embrace.
He smiles at her, she smiles too, throws her arms so tightly around him.
They kiss.
Then as Westley walks away, Buttercup watches him go.
Buttercup, staring out the window of her room.
HOLD ON HER FACE, perfect and perfectly sad.
The main courtyard of Florin replete with townspeople, livestock, and a bustling marketplace.
PRINCE HUMPERDINCK, a man of incredible power and bearing, standing in his royal robes on a castle balcony.
Three others standing behind him: an OLD COUPLE with crowns, the aging KING AND QUEEN, and a dark bearded man who seems the Prince's match in strength: this is COUNT RUGEN.
A giant staircase leading to the CROWD and as a FIGURE just begins to become visible.
THE CROWD, as they see the figure.
(We haven't yet.) And if there is such a thing as collective action, then this crowd, collectively, holds its breath.
THE STAIRCASE, as the figure appears in the archway.
And she resplendent.
She descends the stairs and starts to move amongst the people.
THE CROWD, and they do a very strange thing: with no instruction at all, they suddenly go to their knees.
Great waves of people kneeling.
BUTTERCUP, terribly moved.
She stands immobile among her subjects, blinking back tears.
HOLD on her beauty for a moment.
Buttercup, barreling along, controlling her horse easily.
Lovely, quiet, deserted.
Buttercup suddenly reins in.
THREE MEN, standing close together in the path.
Beyond them can be seen the waters of Florin Channel.
The three men are not your everyday commuter types.
Standing in front is a tiny man with the most angelic face.
He is Sicilian and his name is VIZZINI.
Beside him is a Spaniard, erect and taut as a blade of steel.
Beside him is a giant.
As she starts to fall.
A sailboat is moored.
It's dusk now, shadows are long.
Inigo, the Spaniard, busies himself getting the boat ready.
The giant Fezzik carries Buttercup, unconscious, on board.
Vizzini rips some tiny pieces of fabric from an army jacket and tucks them along the saddle of Buttercup's horse.
There is about the entire operation a sense of tremendous skill and precision.
The horse takes off.
They start for the boat.
Vizzini hops onto the boat.
Vizzini, in a fury.
INIGO AND FEZZIK, as Vizzini advances on them.
Vizzini glares at him, then turns, leaves them.
During this, Inigo has gone close to FEZZIK, who is very distressed at the insults he's just received.
As they sail off, we hear their voices as the boat recedes.
Inigo is at the helm, FEZZIK stands near the body of the princess, whose eyelids flutter slightly--or do they? Vizzini sits motionless.
The waves are higher, there are only occasional flashes of moon slanting down between clouds.
Inigo nods, glances back.
Vizzini turns a cold eye on the Princess.
Inigo keeps staring behind them.
And suddenly the three whirl, stare back and as they do.
It's hard to see; the moon is behind clouds now.
But the wind whistles.
And the waves pound.
And suddenly it's all gone ominous.
INIGO, FEZZIK, AND VIZZINI squinting back, trying desperately to see.
At this moment, they are all holding their breaths.
Then-- The moon slips through and-- Inigo was right--something is very much there.
A sailboat.
It's a good distance behind them, but it's coming like hell, closing the gap.
staring at the other boat.
BUTTERCUP, diving into the water, starting to swim away.
THE BOAT, and Vizzini screaming.
BUTTERCUP, still close to the boat, switching from a crawl to a silent breast stroke.
The wind dies and as it does, something new is heard.
Buttercup stops suddenly, treads water.
BUTTERCUP, treading water, still not far from the boat.
Buttercup stays silent.
BUTTERCUP, and she's a gutsy girl.
Behind her now, something dark and gigantic slithers past.
She's scared, sure, petrified, who wouldn't be, but she makes no reply-- --and now a SHRIEKING EEL has zeroed in on her-- --and now she sees it, a short distance away, circling, starting to close-- --and Buttercup is frozen, trying not to make a movement of any kind-- --and the Eel slithers closer, closer-- --and Buttercup knows it now, there's nothing she can do, it's over, all over-- --and now the Eel opens its mouth wide, and it's never made such a noise, and as its great jaws are about to clamp down.
The Kid looks the same, pale and weak, but maybe he's gripping the sheets a little too tightly with his hands.
His Grandfather says nothing, just waits.
We're back in the boat.
BUTTERCUP, treading water.
And we're back where we were at the last moment we saw her, Buttercup frozen, the Shrieking Eel, jaws wide, about to clamp down as we.
A GIANT ARM, pounding the Eel unconscious in one move, then easily lifting Buttercup.
The boat and FEZZIK, Buttercup being deposited on the deck.
INIGO, pointing behind them.
Vizzini, tying Buttercup's hands.
The boat at dawn, being followed closely by the black sailboat, which we can see for the first time is being sailed by a MAN IN BLACK, and his boat almost seems to be flying.
And once he's said the name.
They rise straight up, sheer from the water, impossibly high.
in a wild race for the Cliffs and the Man In Black is closing faster than ever, but not fast enough, the lead was too great to overcome, and as Inigo sails with great precision straight at the Cliffs.
FEZZIK reaches up along the Cliff face, grabs a jutting rock, reaches behind it.
Suddenly there is a thick rope in his hands.
He drops back to the boat, gives the rope a freeing swing and.
The rope goes all the way to the top.
He straps a harness to him, then lifts Buttercup and Vizzini in the harness.
Finally, he himself gets in the harness.
All three are strapped to FEZZIK like papooses.
And he starts to ascend the rope, carrying them all along with him as he goes.
THE MAN IN BLACK, sailing in toward the Cliffs of Insanity, watching as FEZZIK rises swiftly through the first moments of dawn.
FEZZIK'S GROUP is only faintly visible far below.
This is the first time we've gotten the real vertigo feeling and it's a gasper.
FEZZIK CLIMBING ON.
Buttercup is almost out of her mind with fear.
FEZZIK is moving right along; however high they are, he's already over a third of the way done.
THE MAN IN BLACK, leaping from his ship to the rope, starting to climb.
He's impossibly far behind, but the way he goes you'd think he didn't know that because he is flying up the rope, hand over hand like lightning.
He prods FEZZIK, who nods, increases his pace.
THE MAN IN BLACK, roaring up the rope
the Man In Black is cutting deeply into FEZZIK's lead.
And his arms begin moving much more slowly.
VIZZINI AND THE OTHERS, and it's getting too close now.
THE MAN IN BLACK, less than a hudred feet behind them.
Vizzini leaps off and takes out a knife, begins to cut the rope which is tied around a great rock while Inigo helps the Princess to her feet and FEZZIK just stands around, waiting for someone to tell him to do something.
Nearby are some stone ruins.
Once they might have been a fort, now the kind of resemble Stonehenge.
THE MAN IN BLACK, feet from the top now, maybe less--maybe only his pace is as dazzling as before, and.
VIZZINI, cutting through the last of the rope and.
THE ROPE, slithering across the ground and out of sight toward the Channel, like some great serpent at last going home.
FEZZIK, standing with Inigo and Buttercup by the cliff edge.
THE MAN IN BLACK, hanging suspended hundreds of feet in the air, holding to the jagged rocks, desperately trying to cling to life.
VIZZINI, stunned, turning to the others, looking down.
THE MAN IN BLACK, and so he is.
Very slowly, he is picking his way upwards, sometimes a foot at a time, sometimes an inch.
The group at the top, staring down.
Inigo nods.
THE MAN IN BLACK, still creeping his way upward.
FEZZIK, who goes to Inigo.
FEZZIK nods, hurries after Vizzini.
He watches them depart, then turns, peers down over the cliffs.
He watches a moment, then paces, shaking his hands loose.
He practices a few of his honed fencing skills.
He is a taut and nervous fellow, and has never been one for waiting around.
THE MAN IN BLACK, climbing on.
He must be six inches closer to the top than when last we saw him.
Inigo is watching.
INIGO, walking away.
Finally he goes back to cliff edge, starts to talk.
It's instant death if the Man In Black falls, but neither gives that possibility much credence.
This is our two heroes meeting.
The Man In Black glances up, kind of grunts.
Inigo steps away, draws his sword, loosens up with a few perfect thrusts.
Then re-sheathes and looks eagerly over the edge again.
And he just hangs there in space, resting, gathering his strength.
And on these words, CAMERA ZOOMS into a CLOSE UP on Inigo.
He raises his right hand high, his eyes blaze, and his voice takes on a tone we have not heard before.
Then, quietly.
He dashes to the giant rock the rope was originally tied to.
THE MAN IN BLACK, as his grip loosens a moment, trying to cling to the side of the cliff.
INIGO, now with a small coil of rope, hurries back to the edge and hurls it over.
It hangs close to the Man In Black.
He releases the rocks, grabs the rope, hangs helplessly in space a moment, then looks up at Inigo and.
INIGO, straining, forcing his body away from the cliff edge.
rising through the early morning light, slowly, steadily, and as the cliff top at last comes within reach.
INIGO, watching as the Man In Black crawls to safety, then looks to Inigo.
The Man In Black sits to rest on the boulder that once held the rope.
He tugs off his leather boots and is amazed to see several large rocks tumble out.
The Man In Black wears gloves.
Inigo stares at them.
He glances up--the question clearly baffles him.
He hands his sword to the Man In Black.
Even now, this still brings pain.
THE MAN IN BLACK, looking up at Inigo.
And on that word.
And what we are starting now is one of the two greatest sword fights in modern movies (the other one happens later on), and right from the beginning it looks different.
THE SIX-FINGERED SWORD, feinting here, feinting there.
THE TWO MEN, finished teasing, begin to duel in earnest.
Their swords cross, then again, again, and the sound comes so fast it's almost continual.
Inigo presses on, the Man In Black retreating up a rocky incline.
And he shifts his style now.
The Man In Black is now perched at the edge of the elevated castle ruin.
Inigo stares down at him.
And now, with the grace of an Olympian, Inigo flies off the perch, somersaults clean over the Man In Black's head, and lands facing his opponent.
The two men are almost flying across the rocky terrain, never losing balance, never coming close to stumbling; the battle rages with incredible finesse, first one and then the other gaining the advantage, and by now, it's clear that this isn't just two athletes going at it, it's a lot more that that.
And behind him now, drawing closer all the time, is the deadly edge of the Cliffs of Insanity.
Inigo fights and ducks and feints and slashes and it all works, but not for long, as gradually the Man In Black keeps the advantage, keeps forcing Inigo back, closer and closer to death.
The Cliff edge is very close now.
Inigo is continually being forced toward it.
Inches from defeat, Inigo is, in fact, all smiles.
And he throws the six-fingered sword into his right hand and immediately, the tide of battle turns.
THE MAN IN BLACK, stunned, doing everything be can to keep Inigo by the Cliff edge.
But no use.
Slowly at first, he begins to retreat.
Now faster, Inigo is in control and the Man In Black is desperate.
And the six-fingered sword is all but invisible now, as he increases his attack, then suddenly switches styles again.
A ROCKY STAIRCASE leading to a turret-shaped plateau, and the Man In Black is retreating like mad up the steps and he can't stop Inigo--nothing can stop Inigo--and in a frenzy, the Man In Black makes every feint, tries every thrust, lets go with all he has left.
But he fails.
Everything fails.
He tries one or two final desperate moves but they are nothing.
And now the Man In Black is smashed into a stone pillar, pinned there under the six fingered sword.
And now he changes hands, and at last, the battle is fully joined.
And to his amazement, he is being forced back down the steps.
He tries one style, another, but it all comes down to the same thing--the Man In Black seems to be in control.
And before Inigo knows it, the six-fingered sword is knocked clear out of his hand.
Inigo retreats, dives from the stairs to a moss-covered bar suspended over the archway.
He swings out, lands, and scrambles to his sword and we.
who watches Inigo, then casually tosses his sword to the landing where it sticks in perfectly.
Then the Man In Black copies INIGO.
He dives to the bar, swings completely over it like a circus performer and dismounts with a backflip.
INIGO, staring in awe.
And he dunks Inigo's head with his heavy sword handle.
Inigo pitches forward unconscious.
He grabs his scabbard and takes off after the Princess and we.
Vizzini, staring down from a narrow mountain path, as far below the Man In Black can be seen running.
FEZZIK, carrying the Princess, stands alongside.
It's a little later in the morning.
Vizzini points to them.
There is a large boulder nearby.
As Vizzini and Buttercup hurry away.
He grabs one of the rocks and plods behind the boulder and we.
THE MAN IN BLACK, racing up the mountain trail.
Ahead is a bend in the trail.
He sees it, slows.
Then he stops, listening.
Satisfied by the silence, he starts forward again and as he rounds the bend--a rock flies INTO FRAME, shattering on a boulder inches in front of him.
He moves into the mountain path.
He has picked up another rock and holds it lightly.
He gets set to throw, but the Man In Black shakes his head, takes off his sword and scabbard, begins the approach toward the Giant.
He flips the rock away.
The Man In Black is not now and has never been a shrimp.
But it's like he wasn't even there, FEZZIK towers over him so much.
There is a moment's pause, and then the Man In Black dives at FEZZIK's chest, slams him several tremendous blows in the stomach, twists his arm severely, slips skillfully into a beautifully applied bear hug, and in general makes any number of terrific wrestling moves.
FEZZIK just stands there, kind of taking in the scenery.
Finally the Man In Black pushes himself away, stares up at the Giant.
They get set to begin again.
Then suddenly.
FEZZIK, as he jumps forward with stunning speed for anyone his size and reaches for the Man In Black who drops to his knees, spins loose, and slips between the Giant's legs.
FEZZIK considers this a moment, then attacks, and if he moved quickly last time, this time he is blinding and as the Man In Black slips down to avoid the charge, FEZZIK moves right with him, only instead of twisting free and jumping to his feet, this time the Man In Black jumps for FEZZIK's back and in a moment he is riding him, and his arms have FEZZIK's throat, locked across FEZZIK's windpipe, one in front, one behind.
The Man In Black begins to squeeze.
Tighter.
FEZZIK, as he charges toward a huge rock that lines the path, and just as he reaches it he spins his giant body so that the entire weight of the charge is taken by the Man In Black.
And the power of the charge is terrible, the pain enormous, but he clings to his grip at FEZZIK's windpipe.
Again FEZZIK charges, slower this time, but still a charge, and again he spins and creams the Man In Black against the rough boulder.
And the punishment is terrible, and for a moment it seems as if he is going to let go of FEZZIK's windpipe and crumble, but he doesn't, he holds on.
Again FEZZIK slams the Man In Black against a boulder, only this time his power has diminished and FEZZIK starts to slowly collapse.
And there isn't much breath coming.
THE MAN IN BLACK, holding his grip as FEZZIK tries to stand, halfway makes it, but there is no air.
Back to his knees he falls, holds there for a moment, and pitches down to all fours.
The Man In Black increases the pressure.
FEZZIK tries to crawl.
But there is just no air.
FEZZIK goes to earth and lies still.
FEZZIK, as the Man In Black turns him over, puts his ear to FEZZIK's heart.
The Man In Black stands.
And he nimbly scoops up his sword with his foot, catches it and as he dashes off up along the mountain path.
PRINCE HUMPERDINCK, as he slips his boot into a foot print in the sand.
Count Rugen mounted, watches.
Behind him, half a dozen armed WARRIORS, also mounted.
A GREAT WHITE HORSE waits riderless in front.
Humperdinck is all over the rocky ground, and maybe he isn't the best hunter in the world.
Then again, maybe he is.
Because, as he begins to put his feet into strange positions, we realize that what he is doing is miming the fencers.
And he gallops off.
THE MAN IN BLACK, cresting the peak of the mountain.
a knife pointed at a throat--PULL BACK TO REVEAL Vizzini munching on an apple, holding the knife to Buttercup's throat.
She is blindfolded.
A PICNIC SPREAD is laid out.
A tablecloth, two goblets and between them, a small leather wine container.
And some cheese and a couple of apples.
The picnic is set on a lovely spot, high on the edge of a mountain path with a view all the way back to the sea.
The Man In Black comes running around the path, sees Vizzini, slows.
The two men study each other.
The Man In Black nods and comes nearer.
And he pushes his long knife harder against Buttercup's unprotected throat.
BUTTERCUP'S THROAT, as Vizzini jabs with his long knife.
Buttercup gasps against the pain.
THE MAN IN BLACK, stopping fast.
The Man In Black nods.
Another nod.
As Vizzini fills the goblets with the dark red liquid, the Man In Black pulls a small packet from his clothing, handing it to Vizzini.
He studies the Man In Black now.
As Vizzini's pleasure has been growing throughout, the Man In Black's has been fast disappearing.
And suddenly he stops, points at something behind the Man In Black.
THE MAN IN BLACK, turning around, looking.
VIZZINI, busily switching the goblets while the Man In Black has his head turned.
The Man In Black turns to face him again.
Vizzini starts to laugh.
And he picks up his goblet.
The Man In Black picks up the one in front of him.
As they both start to drink, Vizzini hesitates a moment.
Then, allowing the Man In Black to drink first, he swallows his wine.
There's nothing he can say.
He just sits there.
VIZZINI, watching him.
He laughs and roars and cackles and whoops and is in all ways quite cheery until he falls over dead.
THE MAN IN BLACK, stepping past the corpse, taking the blindfold and bindings off Buttercup, who notices Vizzini lying dead.
The Man In Black pulls her to her feet.
He starts to lead her off the mountain path into untraveled terrain.
It's where FEZZIK fought the Man in Black.
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL the Prince, kneeling, inspecting every grain of misplaced sand.
The others wait behind him.
He leaps onto his horse and they charge off.
The Man In Black comes running into view, still dragging Buttercup, who sometimes stumbles, but he keeps forcing her along.
Finally, when she is close to exhaustion, he lets go of her.
And the Man In Black cocks back a fist.
Buttercup flinches, but does not retreat.
The picnic is spread as before.
CAMERA PULLS BACK TO REVEAL the Prince kneeling by the body as the others ride up.
The Prince grabs the empty poison packet, hands it to Rugen, after first sniffing it himself.
And as he vaults onto his horse and the all charge off.
BUTTERCUP, being spun INTO CAMERA view, falling heavily as the Man In Black releases her.
We are at the edge of an almost sheer ravine.
The drop is sharp and severe.
Below, the ravine floor is flat, but getting there would not be half the fun.
The Man In Black says nothing.
CLOSE UP - BUTTERCUP, quietly now.
watching her closely.
And probably, if she did not hate Roberts so, there would be tears.
Buttercup nods.
The Man In Black is about to reply as they stand there on the edge of the sheer ravine.
But then something catches his attention and as he stares at it briefly.
The dust cloud caused by Humperdinck's HORSES is rising up into the sky.
BUTTERCUP, and while his attention is on the dust cloud, rising high, she pushes him with all the strength she has.
THE MAN IN BLACK, teetering on the ravine edge, for a moment, then he begins to fall.
Down goes the Man In Black.
Down, down, rolling, spinning, crashing always down toward the flat rock floor of the ravine.
BUTTERCUP, staring transfixed at what she has wrought.
She stands there, alone, as from far below the words come to her, drifting on the wind.
And without a second thought or consideration of the dangers, she starts into the ravine.
A moment later, she too is falling, spinning and twisting, crashing and torn, cartwheeling down toward what is left of her beloved.
THE DUST CLOUD, rising.
Prince Humperdinck and the others reining in at the spot where Buttercup promised ransom in exchange for her freedom.
The mere mention of the Fire Swamp makes him pale.
TWO BODIES lie a few feet apart, not moving.
After a time, Westley slowly forces his body into motion and as he does.
BUTTERCUP, bruised and torn, as Westley crawls slowly toward her.
And now, they begin to kiss; it's a tender kiss, tender and loving and gentle and.
racing along the ravine floor.
Westley glances up.
perched on top of the cliff, looking down at Westley and Buttercup.
And it really doesn't look any worse than any other moist, sulphurous, infernal horror you might run across.
Great trees block the sun.
Buttercup is clearly panicked and maybe Westley is too, but he moves jauntily along, sword in hand.
THE GIANT TREES, thick and black-green, look ominous as hell and they shield all but intermittent stripes of sun.
WESTLEY, instantly forcing Buttercup to sit, gathering her flaming hem in his hands, doing his best to suffocate the fire.
He examines where the flames burst over her.
WESTLEY GRABBING BUTTERCUP, pulling her aside to safety as another great spun of flame suddenly shoots up.
Buttercup is frozen with fear.
He takes her hand, gently leads her forward as we.
The two of them moving slowly along through a particularly dangerous part of the Fire Swamp.
It's later now, the sun slants down at a slightly different angle.
Westley simply picks up Buttercup as they walk along, moves her out of danger, puts her back down, goes right on talking without missing a beat.
Westley takes his sword, slices a path for them to follow.
The vines groan as they fall.
He's been chatting away the entire time.
Westley picks her up, carrying her across some swamp water that is bridged by a narrow, rickety tree branch.
The two of them have by now crossed the pond.
Buttercup, perplexed, is about to reply but the ground she steps on gives way--it's Lightning Sand--a great patch of it, and it has her--a cloud of powder rises and she sinks into the stuff crying Westley's name but then she is gone as we.
WESTLEY WHIRLING, slashing at a U-shaped vine, hacks it in half--it's still connected to the tree.
Then be grabs it, drops his sword, and, clutching the other end of the vine, he dives into the lightning sand and there is another cloud of white powder, but it settles quickly.
Now nothing can be seen.
Just the lightning sand, lovely and lethal.
And then a giant R.O.U.S.
darts into view.
The R.O.U.S.--a Rodent of Unusual Size--is probably no more than eighty pounds of bone and power.
It sniffs around a bit then, as quickly as it has come, it goes.
THE LIGHTNING SAND, as Westley, lungs long past the bursting point, explodes out; he has Buttercup across his shoulders and as he pulls to the edge of the lightning sand pit, using the vine.
Her face is caked with the white powder.
It is in her eyes, her ears, hair, mouth.
She's still probably beautiful, but you have to look awfully hard to see it.
As Westley continues to pull them to safety.
The R.O.U.S., high above them; it watches.
BUTTERCUP, placed against a tree.
Westley is cleaning the lightning sand from her face.
The R.O.U.S on a much lower branch now.
It stares down at Westley.
Westley stares back up at the beast.
Her eyes flutter.
He continues to work on her as.
Now THERE ARE TWO R.O.U.S.'s.
The have climbed into a nearby tree, stare hungrily down.
WESTLEY, picking her up.
He puts an arm around her, starts to walk with her as he encouragingly goes on talking.
And as he says that, a R.O.U.S comes flying at him from off- screen.
The thing's teeth sink deep into his arm.
Westley drives a fist into the beast's face, rolling it off.
He reaches for his sword just a few feet away,
But the R.O.U.S is back atop him.
It's a fierce battle, and just when we think Westley can't possibly win, he flips the ugly rodent clear.
Westley scrambles for his sword.
The R.O.U.S. stampedes on, changing its target, heading right for-- Buttercup, and she's scared to death and.
And from somewhere they summon strength, pick up their pace, and as they reach the edge of the Fire Swamp.
Something we hadn't expected: Humperdinck on his horse, Rugen beside him.
THREE WARRIORS, armed and ready, are mounted in formation behind.
They stop.
Buttercup looks beyond exhaustion.
Westley looks worse.
Behind Humperdinck are the waters of the bay.
WESTLEY AND BUTTERCUP, staring out at the others.
BUTTERCUP, looking from one to the other; then something else catches her eye and we.
AN ARMED WARRIOR, in shadow, with a loaded crossbow aimed at Westley's heart.
BUTTERCUP, looking the other way.
ANOTHER WARRIOR, crossbow aimed at Westley.
BUTTERCUP, frantically staring around, and now.
A THIRD WARRIOR, crossbow stretched, ready to shoot; this one is hidden in a tree blocking any escape Westley might try.
HUMPERDINCK, whirling to face her.
WESTLEY, whirling to face her.
BUTTERCUP, talking to them both.
BUTTERCUP AND WESTLEY, staring deep into each other's eyes.
Westley is dazed.
Buttercup tries to speak again, can't, and is swooped off her feet onto Humperdinck's horse, and off they go.
WESTLEY, staring after her.
Rugen watches as his warriors bring Westley to him.
The Count has a heavy sword and he holds it in his hand.
Westley is looking at him.
Count Rugen clubs Westley hard across the skull.
Westley starts to fall--the screen goes black.
Dank and chill, underground and windowless, lit by flickering torches.
Frightening.
Westley lies in the center of the cage, chained and helpless.
Dead pale, he silently enters the pit, carrying a tray of food and medication.
He puts it down.
He begins tending Westley's wounds.
Westley winces.
From the Albino: a nod.
From the Albino: a shake of the head.
He studies Westley, whose face is almost sad.
BUTTERCUP, and her face is sad.
Pallid, perhaps ill.
She wanders down a corridor in Florin Castle.
As she moves unseeing past an intersecting corridor.
PRINCE HUMPERDINCK AND COUNT RUGEN, watching her.
As they move on.
CAMERA HOLDS ON IT while we hear the Grandfather's voice reading.
And if we thought it was packed before, we didn't know how many more could fit in this courtyard.
Humperdinck, Rugen and the Queen stand high on the balcony.
And the scene FREEZES, Humperdinck caught in mid-sentence.
The Kid is half sitting now, not strong yet, but clearly stronger than when we first saw him.
And on these words.
And on his words.
we saw before, as Buttercup emerges.
THE CROWD, suddenly going to its knees, wave after wave of silent KNEELING PEOPLE.
All of them down.
BUTTERCUP, touched as before, but then she seems stunned as we.
She advances on Buttercup now, who is more and more panicked.
BUTTERCUP, coming out of her nightmare, alone in her castle bedroom.
As she frantically grabs a robe and starts to run.
BUTTERCUP, bursting into the Prince's chambers.
Count Rugen stands nearby.
Just stunned.
Finally, softly, he begins to talk.
And she nods.
The trees are unusual in one respect: all of them are extraordinarily heavily knotted.
Humperdinck and Rugen, walking into the grove of trees.
They are deeper into the grove now.
Rugen is searching around.
Rugen smiles and hurries down the stairs as the tree slides back perfectly into place.
Count Rugen, dragging Westley up alongside the thing--Levers and wheels and wires, you name it, it's there.
He has suction cups on his head now, on his temple, on his heart, his hands and feet.
He says nothing, keeps control of himself.
And then he opens the flood gate, water pours down the chute, turning the wheel, which in turn really gets The Machine going.
WESTLEY, and he's lying on the table, and he's only flesh and the chains are metal and thick, but such is his desperation it almost seems he might break them.
It keeps on coming as we finally.
He switches off The Machine, picks up a large notebook and pen, sits in a chair.
WESTLEY, in anguish so deep it is dizzying.
Helpless, he cries.
Count Rugen watches the tears,
Then starts to write in his quarters, swamped.
Piles of papers are strewn all over.
Now YELLIN, a pale, shifty, quick-eyed man appears in the doorway.
entering.
THE PRINCE AND YELLIN, turning to her in the doorway.
As she glides out.
A lot of hollering is going on.
The THIEVES are being rounded up by the BRUTE SQUAD, alarge group of large men.
Yellin stands on a wagon in the midst of all the scuffling.
And his wagon starts, and as it does.
INIGO, drunk as a skunk, sprawled in front of a hovel, a bottle of brandy in one hand, the six-fingered sword in the other.
He looks dreadful.
Unshaven, puffy-eyed, gaunt.
INIGO feels a hand on his back.
He compares it to his own smaller hand.
And as the Assistant Brute is just about to club Inigo's brains out, FEZZIK lets fly with a stupendous punch.
The Assistant Brute takes the full force of the blow right in the chops.
TWO LARGE TUBS, one filled with steaming water, the other with water clearly of an icy nature.
Without a word FEZZIK stuffs Inigo's head into the icy water, then, after a reasonable amount of time, pulls him out, ducks him into the steaming stuff, and, a short time after that, puts him back in the cold again, then back in the hot.
Then a wild look hits Inigo.
Yellin enters, and kneels.
He shows the key, dangling from a chain around his neck.
Just at that moment, Buttercup enters.
The Prince looks at her blankly for a moment.
BUTTERCUP, staring at Humperdinck.
And with that he whirls, turns on The Machine, grabs the lever and.
calling out.
PRINCE HUMPERDINCK, shoving the lever all the way up and.
And there has never been such pain.
A few CHILDREN pale, bolt toward their PARENTS and.
The Albino appears wheeling a barrow.
INIGO'S SWORD pushes at his chest.
The Albino shakes his head, says nothing.
And FEZZIK crunches the Albino on the top of the head as if he had a hammer and was driving in a nail.
The Albino drops without a sound.
He kneels, the sword held tight between his hands.
Eyes closed, he faces the grove of trees, starts to talk, his voice low and strange.
And now he rises, eyes still closed.
as Inigo, eyes shut tight, walks forward, the great sword held in his hands.
FEZZIK, frightened, follows close behind.
walking blind through the grove of trees.
He moves to the Secret Knot, hesitates, then moves past it.
Then Inigo stops.
For a long moment he stands frozen.
Suddenly he whirls, eyes still closed, and the sword strikes home dead center into a knot and-- Nothing.
He has failed.
In utter despair he collapses against the tree.
Against a knot in the tree.
Against THE KNOT in the tree.
It slides away, revealing the staircase.
FEZZIK and Inigo look at each other, then start down.
WESTLEY, dead by The Machine.
FEZZIK leans over him, listening for a heartbeat.
Then he looks at Inigo, shakes his head.
For a moment, he just sags.
He is terribly excited and looks stronger than we've yet seen him.
And he desperately fights for control.
Inigo, in despair.
(We're back in the Pit, the same shot as before).
For a moment, he just sags.
Inigo, FEZZIK, Westley approach the door.
They knock.
If Mel Brooks' Year Old Man was really old, he'd resemble this guy.
Inigo pounds again.
He shuts the window.
They rap on the door.
INIGO AND FEZZIK, hurrying inside.
FEZZIK carries Westley who is just starting to stiffen up a little.
He lays Westley down across a bench by the fireplace, picks Westley's arm up and lets it drop limp.
He studies Westley a moment, checking here, checking there.
He goes to get a huge bellows.
Inigo does.
Max inserts the bellows in Westley's mouth and starts to pump.
He stops pumping.
And he presses lightly on Westley's chest.
And as Valerie shrieks excitedly we.
It is somewhat smaller than a tennis ball.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL MAX AND VALERIE, exhausted, looking at the lump with beautific pleasure, as Valerie, cooking utensil in hand, covers the thing with what looks like chocolate.
Inigo and FEZZIK stare at the thing too, but more dubiously.
Inigo accepts the pill as FEZZIK takes Westley, who is stiff as a board now.
During this, FEZZIK, using all his strength, has managed to get Westley into a right angled sitting position, while Inigo brings out the miracle pill.
Pill in hand, he drops it into Westley's mouth.
Inigo and FEZZIK react.
Westley is the only one not amazed.
He sits there, immobile, like a ventriloquist's dummy.
He is watching his fingers, one of which twitches now.
FEZZIK helps Inigo raise Westley just high enough so he can see for himself.
WESTLEY, absolutely stunned.
He shakes his head from side to side.
Inigo and FEZZIK do.
They move along the wall in silence for a time.
Then these words come to us on the wind.
BUTTERCUP, in her bridal gown, and she's incredible.
The Prince, fastening a pearl necklace around her.
BUTTERCUP, and she couldn't seem more serene.
WESTLEY AND INIGO AND FEZZIK, looking out at the enemy.
This is it.
Inigo and FEZZIK shake hands.
Westley can't even do that, but after a bit of rocking back and forth, he manages to get enough momentum to catapult his arm over and onto his friend's.
The most intelligent looking, the most impressive appearing clergyman imaginable.
Buttercup and Humperdinck kneel before the Clergyman.
Behind them sit the mumbling old KING AND QUEEN.
Standing in the back is Count Rugen.
FOUR GUARDS are in position flanking the chapel door.
He has an impediment that would stop a clock.
THE BRUTES AND YELLIN, by the gate, for it is indeed they who are making the commotion, frightened, pointing.
And it is a bit unnerving--a GIANT seems to be floating toward them out of the darkness, a Giant in a strange cloak, and with a voice that would crumble walls.
and he seems to be floating because he's standing in the wheelbarrow, as Inigo, hidden behind him, busts a gut by pushing it and supporting Westley.
YELLIN, keeping the Brutes in position, or trying to, shouting orders, instructions and as yet the Brutes hold.
Inigo struggles bravely under their combined weight.
THE BRUTES, as the Giant bursts suddenly, happily into flames.
THE CHAPEL, where The Impressive Clergyman plows on.
FEZZIK, as he pulls off the holocaust cloak.
And FEZZIK rushes forward, grabbing the portcullis, which is indeed closing quickly.
FEZZIK grabs the gate: and swings the tonnage back upward.
Yellin just watches in fear.
Buttercup only smiles, shakes her head.
And she's right.
It's there.
YELLIN, pressed against the main gate.
Westley, Inigo, and FEZZIK close in.
And he whips it out, hands it to FEZZIK.
BUTTERCUP, standing there.
Dazed.
COUNT RUGEN AND HIS FOUR WARRIORS, racing through the castle, and as they reach a complex intersection of several corridors, Rugen stops, incredulous, as we.
WESTLEY, INIGO, AND FEZZIK, moving toward them.
Actually FEZZIK is dragging Westley, who is, in turn, dragging Yellin's sword like a stiff dog leash--Westley simply hasn't the strength to raise it.
COUNT RUGEN, as the confrontation is about to start.
And as his Warriors attack-- Inigo goes wild, and maybe the Warrior's are good, maybe they're even better than that--but they never get a chance to show it because this is something now, this is Inigo gone mad and the six-fingered sword has never flashed faster and the FOURTH WARRIOR is dead before the FIRST ONE has even hit the floor.
For a moment he just stands there, sword in hand.
Then he does a most unexpected thing.
He turns and runs the hell away.
INIGO, momentarily surprised, then taking off after him, leaving Westley and FEZZIK to exchange curious looks and Rugen, running through a half-open heavy wooden door, shutting it and locking it just as Inigo throws himself against it.
He tries again.
FEZZIK WITH WESTLEY, who is still unable to walk under his own power.
He calls back.
INIGO, desperately pounding at the heavy door.
And he props Westley up against a large suit of armour and takes off toward the intersection where Inigo's voice came from.
INIGO, still hammering the door.
FEZZIK approaches, gestures for him to stop, and with one mighty swipe of his mighty hands the door crumbles.
And Inigo flies through as FEZZIK heads back to Westley.
The Queen, more sprightly, is several paces ahead.
Buttercup gently stops the King and places a kiss on his forehead.
He's very surprised and pleased.
And on those words.
And he's running, dashing through corridors and as he glances back.
INIGO, behind him, coming like a streak and.
THE INTERSECTION, with the large suit of armour, and FEZZIK gaping, staring at all those choices, trying to piece together the puzzle of the missing Westley.
COUNT RUGEN, flashing out of one room, down a staircase, picking up his pace.
He pulls out a deadly looking dagger, with a sharp point and a triangular shaped blade, and sprints on and.
INIGO, closing the gap, closer, closer and he's down the stairs and heading into a dining hall and.
COUNT RUGEN, throwing the dagger.
INIGO, trying like hell to get out of the way, but no, and it sticks deep into his stomach, and he hurtles back helplessly against the wall of the room, his eyes glazed, blood coming from his wound.
COUNT RUGEN, looking across the room at Inigo.
Inigo sinks.
BUTTERCUP, shutting the door of the Honeymoon Suite, crossing quietly to the far wall where she sits at a table, opens a jeweled box, and takes out a very deadly looking dagger.
She seems very much at peace as she touches the knife to her bosom.
And Buttercup whirls as we.
WESTLEY, lying on the bed.
Yellin's sword is beside him.
His voice sounds just fine, but he does not move.
Buttercup leaps to the bed, covering him with kisses.
Westley is helpless.
And she lets go, thumping his head against the headboard and.
COUNT RUGEN, looking very much surprised.
Inigo, struggling feebly, pulling the dagger from his stomach.
Holding the wound with his left hand.
Rugen is pushing off from the table, sword in hand, moving in to kill Inigo.
Inigo watches the Count approach, and the Count flicks his sword at Inigo's heart, and there's not much Inigo can do, just kind of vaguely parry the thrust with the six-fingered sword and Count Rugen's blade sinks deeply into Inigo's left shoulder.
THE COUNT, stepping back, going for the heart again.
And as this blow comes he's trying to use the wall for support in forcing himself to his feet, and it's not a roaring success of an attempt, but he does at least make some progress, and again he manages to parry the thrust, as this time Rugen's sword runs through his right arm.
Again, Inigo doesn't seem to mind, doesn't even feel it.
COUNT RUGEN, stepping back for just a moment, watching as Inigo continues to inch his way to his feet and then, just before the Count is about to strike again, Inigo manages a little flick of his own and Rugen hadn't expected it, and he jumps back, makes a little involuntary cry of surprise and.
Inigo, slowly pushing away from the wall.
COUNT RUGEN, suddenly going into a fierce attack, striking with great power and precision for he is a master swordsman, and he forces Inigo easily back, drives him easily into the wall.
But he does not penetrate Inigo's defense.
None of the Count's blows get home.
As the Count steps back a moment.
INIGO, pushing slowly off from the wall again.
And again he attacks, slashing with wondrous skill.
But none of his blows get through and, slowly, Inigo, again moves forward.
COUNT RUGEN, retreating more quickly around the table.
Inigo drives for the Count's left shoulder now, thrusts home where the Count had gotten him.
Then another move and his blade enters the Count's right shoulder, the same spot Inigo was wounded.
And now the six-fingered sword strikes and there is a slash bleeding along one of Rugen's cheeks.
The great sword flashes again, and now there is a parallel slash bleeding on Rugen's other cheek.
And on that.
INIGO, and almost too fast for the eye to follow, the sword strikes one final time and.
COUNT RUGEN, crying out in fear and panic as the sword hits home dead center and.
INIGO AND RUGEN, the sword clear through the Count.
They are almost frozen like that for a moment.
Then Inigo withdraws his sword and as the Count pitches down.
RUGEN, lying dead.
His skin is ashen and the blood still pours from the parallel cuts on his cheeks and his eyes are bulging wide, full of fear.
INIGO, staring at Rugen.
WESTLEY lies as before, not a muscle has moved, his head is still on the headboard, Yellin's sword at his side.
Buttercup is alongside the bed; her eyes never leave his face.
HUMPERDINCK, entering the room, staring at them.
He pulls out his sword.
WESTLEY, lying there comfortably, his words quiet at first.
gripping his sword, watching.
And now he stops, and the look that was in his eyes at the wedding, that look of fear, is starting to return.
HUMPERDINCK, doing his best to hide the fear that keeps building inside him.
WESTLEY, lying there, staring at him.
And now, slowly, Westley begins to move.
His body turns, his feet go to the floor, he starts to stand.
HUMPERDINCK, staring, eyes wide.
And now he is standing, sword in fighting position.
PRINCE HUMPERDINCK, and he's so panicked he doesn't know whether to pee or wind his watch.
He throws his sword to the floor.
WESTLEY, speaking to Buttercup as Humperdinck sits.
And as she sets to work.
INIGO, entering, looking around.
HUMPERDINCK, and now be starts wrestling mightily with his bonds.
They look at each other, then move to the balcony, and.
FEZZIK, leading FOUR GREAT WHITE HORSES.
He glances up, sees them on the balcony.
INIGO AND WESTLEY AND BUTTERCUP, looking down at FEZZIK.
And as he holds out his great arms.
Buttercup floating through the air.
What's happening, of course, is that she's jumping from the balcony so FEZZIK can catch her.
But her fall is in slow motion so you might think she was flying.
Westley and Inigo, watching as FEZZIK catches Buttercup.
triumphantly racing through the night.
BUTTERCUP AND WESTLEY, and at last their trials are done.
As Buttercup and Westley begin their ultimate kiss.
The Grandfather snaps the book closed.
And his smile is enough.
As The Grandfather steps out the door.
A faint light illuminates the screen.
Flickeringly, we see an eighteenth century balustrade and a flight of stone stairs.
We are looking down into the wall of the staircase from the point of view of the landing.
Up the stair is coming a branched candlestick held by Salieri's VALET.
By his side is Salieri's COOK, bearing a large dish of sugared cakes and biscuits.
Both men are desperately worried: the Valet is thin and middle-aged; the Cook, plump and Italian.
They wear shawls over their night-dresses and clogs on their feet.
They wheeze as they climb.
The candles throw their shadows up onto the peeling walls of the house, which is evidently an old one and in bad decay.
A cat scuttles swiftly between their bare legs, as they reach the salon door.
The Valet tries the handle.
In horror, the two men stare at it.
The door flies open.
We see what the servants see.
Old Salieri lies on the floor in a pool of blood, an open razor in his hand.
He has cut his throat but is still alive.
He gestures at them.
They run to him.
Barely, we glimpse the room - an old chair, old tables piled with books, a forte- piano, a chamber-pot on the floor - as the Valet and the Cook struggle to lift their old Master, and bind his bleeding throat with a napkin.
Twenty-five dancing couples, fifty guests, ten servants, full orchestra.
As the music slows a little, we see a Masquerade Ball in progress.
A crowded room of dancers is executing the slow portion of a dance fashionable in the early 1820's.
As the fast music returns, we see Old Salieri being carried out of his house on a stretcher by two attendants, and placed in a horse-drawn wagon under the supervision of a middle- aged doctor in a tall hat.
The driver whips up the horse, and the wagon dashes off through the still-falling snow.
The wagon is galloping through the snowy streets of the city.
Inside the conveyance we see Old Salieri wrapped in blankets, half-conscious, being held by the hospital attendants.
Doctor Gulden stares at him grimly.
The wagon arrives outside the General Hospital of Vienna.
A wide, white-washed corridor.
Doctor Gulden is walking down it with a priest, a man of about forty, concerned, but somewhat self-important.
This is Father VOGLER, Chaplain at the hospital.
In the corridor as they walk, we note several patients -- some of them visibly disturbed mentally.
All patients wear white linen smocks.
Doctor Gulden wears a dark frock-coat; Vogler, a cassock.
He propels his wheelchair to the forte-piano, and plays an unrecognizable melody.
He plays another tune.
He plays it with growing enthusiasm.
We see the pretty soprano KATHERINA CAVALIERI, now about twenty-four, dressed in an elaborate mythological Persian costume, singing on stage.
She's near the end of a very florid aria by Salieri.
The audience applauds wildly.
Slyly he plays the opening measure of Mozart's Eine Kleine Nachtmusik.
The priest nods, smiling suddenly, and hums a little with the music.
We see the six-year-old MOZART, also blindfolded, seated in a gilded chair on a pile of books, playing the harpsichord for the POPE and a suite of CARDINALS and other churchmen.
Beside the little boy stands LEOPOLD, his father, smirking with pride.
The piece finishes.
Leopold lowers the lid of the harpsichord and lifts up his little son to stand on it.
Mozart removes the blindfold to show a pale little face with staring eyes.
We see the twelve-year-old Salieri seated between his plump and placid parents in the congregation, listening in rapture.
His father is a heavy- looking, self-approving man, obviously indifferent to the music.
A large and austere Christ on the cross hangs over the altar.
CU, a large cooked fish on a thick china plate.
Camera pulls back to show the Salieri family at dinner.
Father Salieri sits at the head of the table, a napkin tucked into his chin.
Mother Salieri is serving the fish into portions and handing them round.
Father Salieri receives his plate of fish and starts to eat greedily.
Suddenly there is a gasp - he starts to choke violently on a fish bone.
All the women get up and crowd around him, thumping and pummeling him, but it is in vain.
A grand room crowded with guests.
A small group of Gypsy musicians is playing in the background.
Thirteen members of the Archbishop's orchestra - all wind players, complete with wind instruments: elaborate-looking bassoons, basset horns, etc.
and wearing their employer's livery - are laying out music on stands at one end of the room.
We see Salieri, age thirty-one, a neat, carefully turned-cut man in decent black clothes and clean white linen, walking through the crowd of guests.
We follow him.
Then suddenly a servant bearing a large tray of cakes and pastries stalks past.
Instantly riveted by the sight of such delights, Salieri follows him out of the Grand Salon.
The servant marches along bearing his tray of pastries aloft.
Salieri follows him.
several tables, dressed to the floor with cloths are loaded with many plates of confectionery.
It is, in fact, Salieri's idea of paradise! The servant puts his tray down on one of the tables and withdraws from the room.
Salieri turns away so as not to be noticed by the servant.
As soon as the man disappears, Salieri sneaks into the buffet room.
Salieri enters the room and looks about him cautiously.
He is salivating with anticipation as he stares at the feast of sweet things.
His attention is attracted in particular by a huge pile of dark chocolate balls arranged in the shape of a pineapple.
He reaches out a hand to steal one of the balls, but at the same moment he hears giggling coming toward him.
He ducks down behind the pastry table.
A girl - CONSTANZE - rushes into the room.
She runs straight across it and hides herself behind one of the tables.
After a beat of total silence, MOZART runs into the room, stops, and looks around.
He is age twenty-six, wearing a fine wig and a brilliant coat with the insignia of the Archbishop of Salzburg upon it.
He is puzzled; Constanze has disappeared.
Watched by an astonished Salieri, Mozart disappears under the cloth and obviously pounces upon Constanze.
The throng is mostly seated.
The musicians are in their places, holding their various exotic-looking wind instruments; the candles are all lit.
Immediately COLLOREDO, Prince-Archbishop of Salzburg enters.
He is a small self- important figure of fifty in a wig, surmounted by a scarlet skullcap.
He is followed by his Chamberlain, the Count ARCO.
Everyone stands.
The Archbishop goes to his throne and sits.
Instead, a wind musician gets up, approaches the Chamberlain and whispers in his ear.
They roll on the floor.
He tries to drag her back under the table.
The mood becomes suddenly softer.
She kisses him.
They embrace.
Shocked, she strikes at him.
He leaps up, disheveled and rumpled and runs out of the room.
Salieri watches in amazement and disgust.
Mozart hastens towards the Grand Salon away from the buffet room, adjusting his dress as he goes.
The opening of the Serenade is being tentatively conducted by the leader of the wind-musicians.
Guests turn around as Mozart appears - bowing to the Archbishop - and walks with an attempt at dignity to the dais where the wind band is playing.
The leader yields his place to the composer and Mozart smoothly takes over conducting.
Constanze, deeply embarrassed, sneaks into the room and seats herself at the back.
Salieri stands shocked from his inadvertent eavesdropping.
Mozart is conducting the Adagio from his Serenade (K. 361), guiding the thirteen wind instrumentalists.
Salieri appears at the door at the back of the salon.
He stares in disbelief at Mozart.
The audience is clearly delighted.
Mozart bows to them, also delighted.
Mozart does it with a furious grace, then leaves the room.
A group of people who have attended the concert, among them Constanze, are standing outside the private apartment.
At sight of the composer they break into sustained applause.
Mozart is suddenly delighted.
He throws the door wide open so that the guests can see into the private apartment where the Archbishop sits - and he can see them.
Colloredo is clearly discomfited by this reception of his employee.
He smiles and bows uneasily, as they include him in the small ovation.
Mozart stands in the corridor, out of the Archbishop's line of sight, bowing and giggling, and encouraging the applause for the Archbishop with conducting gestures.
Suddenly irritated, Colloredo signs to Arco, who steps forward and shuts the door, ending the applause.
Salieri, in this vast room, is standing and looking at the full score of the Serenade.
Instantly, we again hear its lyrical strains.
CU, Salieri, reading the score of the Adagio in helpless fascination.
Suddenly the music snaps off.
Mozart stands before him as he lays down the score.
He takes the score, bows, and struts briskly out of the room.
Salieri stares uncomprehendingly after the jaunty little figure.
At the table sits the EMPEROR JOSEPH II, eating his frugal dinner and sipping goat's milk.
He is an intelligent, dapper man of forty, wearing a military uniform.
Around him but standing, are his Chamberlain, JOHANN VON STRACK: stiff and highly correct.
COUNT ORSINI-ROSENBERG: a corpulent man of sixty, highly conscious of his position as Director of the Opera.
BARON VON SWIETEN, the Imperial Librarian: a grave but kindly and educated man in his mid-fifties.
FIRST KAPELLMEISTER GIUSEPPE BONNO: very Italian, cringing and time-serving, aged about seventy.
And Salieri, wearing decorous black, as usual.
At a side-table, two Imperial secretaries, using quill pens and inkstands, write down everything of importance that is said.
He looks defiantly at Orsini-Rosenberg.
A somber room which serves both as a bedroom and a study.
Opposite this image sits Salieri at his desk, on which stands a pile of music paper, quill pens and ink.
On one side of him is an open forte-piano on which he occasionally tries notes from the march he is composing, with some difficulty.
He scratches notes out with his quill, and ruffles his hair - which we see without a powdered wig.
The Salesman puts the second wig on his head.
Mozart pulls a face of doubt in the mirror.
He giggles.
He turns and comes into the salon, where another group awaits him.
It consists of Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg, Bonno, Von Swieten and Salieri.
The room contains several gilded chairs dotted about, and a forte-piano.
All bow and say, Good morning, Your Majesty.
He produces a paper.
The Emperor goes to the instrument, sits and plays the first bars of it.
He plays a wrong note.
Mozart throws himself to his knees, and to Joseph's discomfort kisses the royal hand with fervour.
Embarrassed, Mozart bursts into a wild giggle.
Joseph helps him out.
Von Strack and Bonno nod.
Orsini-Rosenberg nods without enthusiasm.
He stops short with a little giggle.
He giggles again.
Orsini-Rosenberg looks at him sourly.
The Italian faction - Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno - laugh discreetly.
An embarrassed pause.
Bonno giggles in nervous amusement.
Joseph is clearly pleased.
He nods - he has wanted this result all the time.
Then he becomes aware of the manuscript in his hand.
Then he goes to the forte-piano and seats himself.
The others, except for Salieri, gather around the manuscript held by the King.
Mozart plays the first half of the march with deadly accuracy.
He plays the first half again but stops in the middle of a phrase, which he repeats dubiously.
All the courtiers look at Salieri.
He plays another phrase.
He plays another phrase.
Gradually, he alters the music so that it turns into the celebrated march to be used later in The Marriage of Figaro, Non Piu Andrai.
He plays it with increasing abandon and virtuosity.
Salieri watches with a fixed smile on his face.
The court watches, astonished.
He finishes in great glory, takes his hands off the keys with a gesture of triumph - and grins.
We see the olivewood cross.
Salieri is sitting at his desk, staring at it.
Cavalieri sings her next scale, then another one, and another one, doing her exercises in earnest.
As she hits a sustained high note the orchestral accompaniment in the middle of Martern Aller Arten from Il Seraglio comes in underneath and the music changes from exercises to the exceedingly florid aria.
We DISSOLVE on the singer's face, and she is suddenly not merely turbaned, but painted and dressed totally in a Turkish manner, and we are on.
The house is full.
Watching the performance - which is conducted by Mozart from the clavier in the midst of the orchestra - we note Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg, Bonno and Von Swieten, all grouped around the Emperor, in a box.
In another box we see an overdressed, middle-aged woman and three girls, one of whom is Constanze.
This is the formidable MADAME WEBER and her three daughters, Constanze, JOSEFA and SOPHIE.
All are enraptured by the spectacle and Madame Weber is especially enraptured by being there at all.
Cavalieri is singing Martern aller Arten from the line Doch du bist entschlossen.
Music up again for the last bars of the aria.
All the cast is lined up on stage.
Mozart is conducting with happy excitement.
Mozart bows frantically: he is over-excited.
She moves toward Mozart with arms outstretched in an absurd theatrical gesture, then sees the Emperor.
She stares at him, mesmerized, her mouth open, unable even to curtsey.
Constanze curtsies.
He giggles uncomfortably.
Cavalieri is glaring at Mozart.
Mozart looks hastily away from her.
She attempts to kiss the royal hand, but faints instead.
The Emperor contemplates her prone body and steps back a pace.
He nods pleasantly to all and leaves the stage, with his Chamberlain.
Cavalieri turns with a savage look at Mozart and leaves the stage the opposite way, to her dressing room, tossing her plumed head.
Salieri watches.
Mozart stays for a second, indecisive whether to follow the soprano or help Madame Weber.
She catches him looking at her and tries to compose herself.
She seats herself at her mirror and removes her wig.
Salieri looks astonished.
The door opens.
Constanze enters.
Mozart hurries Constanze out of the door.
Cavalieri looks after them as they go, her voice breaking and rising out of control.
The old man speaks passionately to the priest.
The young Salieri is kneeling in desperation before the Cross.
CU, Christ staring from the Cross.
We see Leopold kneeling now not to the Cross but to Archbishop Colloredo, sitting impassively on his throne.
Leopold is a desperate, once-handsome man of sixty, now far too much the subservient courtier.
In deepest gratitude he kisses the Archbishop's hand.
He motions Leopold to rise.
The camera pulls back to see that he is in fact kneeling beside Constanze.
A PRIEST faces them.
Behind them are Madame Weber, Josefa and Sophie Weber, and a very few others.
Among them, a merry looking lady in bright clothes: the BARONESS.
Out of breath, the Princess nods nervously.
He smiles at Salieri.
Salieri's face falls, almost imperceptibly.
A SERVANT enters.
Salieri goes into the salon.
Constanze stands, closely veiled, holding a portfolio stuffed with manuscripts.
Salieri enters the salon.
Constanze drops him a shy curtsey.
Shyly, she unveils.
He takes the portfolio and puts it on a table.
He indicates a dish piled high with glazed chestnuts.
He offers her the dish.
She takes one and puts it in her mouth.
He watches carefully.
He takes one himself.
We notice on his finger a heavy gold signet-ring.
He smiles at her.
She takes another chestnut.
The old man faces the Priest.
CU, The manuscript in Mozart's handwriting.
The Court Composer, oblivious to Constanze, who sits happily chewing chestnuts, her mouth covered in sugar, walks around and around his salon, reading the pages and dropping them on the floor when he is done with them.
We see his agonized and wondering face: he shudders as if in a rough and tumbling sea; he experiences the point where beauty and great pain coalesce.
More pages fall than he can read, scattering across the floor in a white cascade, as he circles the room.
He stands shaking, staring wildly.
Constanze gets up, perplexed.
Overjoyed, she stops and kisses his hand.
He raises her - and then clasps her to him clumsily.
They stare at one another: Constanze in total disbelief.
He glares at her.
Salieri sits at his desk, staring up at the cross.
Salieri stares at the cross.
Salieri stirs himself.
A servant appears.
She looks at him inquiringly, and drops the portfolio on the floor; pages of music pour out of it.
To its grand and weighty sound, Constanze starts to undress, watched by the horrified Salieri.
He opens his mouth in distress.
The candle flickers over her as she removes her clothes and prepares for his embrace.
CU, the fireplace.
In it lies the olivewood Christ on the cross, burning.
Mozart chuckles delightedly.
Salieri offers him a glass of white dessert and a spoon.
Mozart takes it absently and goes on talking.
Hysterical barking and howling.
The hall is full of dogs, at least five, all jumping up and dashing about and making a terrific racket.
Mozart, dandified in a new coat and a plumed hat for the occasion, has arrived to teach at the house of a prosperous merchant, MICHAEL SCHLUMBERG.
Bluff, friendly and coarse-looking, he stands in his hall amidst the leaping and barking animals, greeting Mozart.
Suddenly the girl rises.
Mozart smiles at the parents.
They smile nervously back.
Mozart slides along the bench, raises his hands and preludes over the keys.
Instantly a dog howls loudly.
Startled, Mozart stops.
Mozart stops.
Amazed, Mozart starts to play the Rondo again.
The dog howls louder.
He bows to them and leaves the room.
Both men embrace.
A cramped, low-ceilinged little room which nobody has tidied for ages.
Also there are many empty wine bottles; musical instruments - among them a mandolin, a viola, a forte-piano with the black and white keys reversed - books and abandoned plates of food.
Mozart clasps his father's arms.
Leopold is now seen as an aging, travel-stained man in clothes that need repair.
His face is lined, and he is obviously not in perfect health.
He carries the bag across the room.
Constanze lies in bed.
She sits up, startled.
He opens the door of the bedroom.
Constanze, who looks ill and tired, stares at Leopold.
Leopold stares back from the doorway.
He closes the door again.
He picks up some pages of manuscript.
Laughingly, the bystanders take it up, especially the children.
As Leopold glares furiously about him, the actress succeeds in getting Constanze's wig firmly onto his head.
Everybody bursts into applause.
Applause.
All the bystanders are watching.
SMASH CUT: Salieri's masked face whips around and looks at her.
A repetition of the shot of Mozart at the forte-piano, wearing Constanze's wig and emitting a shrill giggle.
Salieri sits at his desk.
It is littered with manuscripts.
In the middle stands a billiard table.
The beautiful closing ensemble from Act IV of Figaro: Ah, Tutti contenti! Saremo cosi plays in the background.
Standing at the billiard table, Mozart is dreamily hearing the music and playing shots on the table.
From time to time he drifts over to a piece of manuscript paper and jots down notes.
He is very much in his own world of composition and the billiard balls are an aid to creation.
Mozart comes out.
Framed in the doorway from outside stands Lorl, the maid we noticed in Salieri's house.
From his bedroom Leopold peeps out to watch.
Mozart goes to the girl.
Constanze follows.
The old man emerges from his bedroom.
Constanze looks furiously at him, then at Lorl.
Lorl goes outside and closes the door.
Constanze turns on Leopold.
A hand comes into frame offering a plate of sugared biscuits.
On its finger we see the gold signet ring belonging to Salieri.
He hands her a pile of coins.
She accepts them, delighted.
To its lively music, the door of the house bursts open and a grand forte-piano augmented with a pedal is carried out of it by six men, who run off with it down the street.
Following them immediately appear Wolfgang, Constanze and Leopold, all three dressed for an occasion.
They climb into a waiting carriage which drives off after the forte-piano.
As soon as it goes, Lorl appears in the doorway, peering slyly around to see that they are out of sight.
Then she shuts the door.
She hurries off in the opposite direction.
An outdoor concert is being given.
Mozart is actually playing the final movement of his E-flat concerto with an orchestra.
Listening to him is a sizable audience, including the Emperor, flanked by Strack and Von Swieten.
The crowd is in a happy and appreciative mood: it is a delightful open-air scene.
Leopold and Constanze listen to Mozart, who plays his own work brilliantly.
A carriage clopping through the streets.
Lorl is sitting up on the box beside the driver.
Inside the vehicle, we glimpse the figure of Salieri.
Mozart is conducting and playing in a reflective mood.
Lorl is opening the door admitting Salieri.
They go in.
The door shuts.
The room is considerably tidier as a result of Lorl's ministrations.
Salieri stands looking about him with tremendous curiosity.
She opens a drawer in a sideboard.
Inside we see one gold snuff box: it is the one we saw Mozart being presented with as a child in the Vatican.
Salieri turns to look around him.
She points across the room to the workroom.
Salieri crosses and goes in alone.
Salieri enters the private quarters of Amadeus.
He moves slowly into the 'holy of holies' picking up objects with great reverence - a billiard ball; a discarded wig; a sock; a buckle - then objects more important to him.
Standing at Mozart's desk, strewn with manuscripts, he picks up Mozart's pen and strokes the feather.
He touches the inkstand.
Stealthily he picks them up.
CU, The pages.
Then another page - the title page - written in Mozart's hand.
CU, Salieri.
He stares amazed.
They all sit, save Mozart.
The room suddenly looks like a tribunal.
All look at the Emperor.
Then Joseph nods.
Mozart falls on his knees.
He giggles.
Mozart sits on stage at a harpsichord rehearsing the singers taking the parts of Figaro and Susanna in the opening bars of the first act of The Marriage of Figaro.
We watch Figaro measuring the space for his bed on the floor, singing and Susanna looking on, trying on the Countess' hat.
Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno are sitting with Salieri.
The company disperses, curious.
The musicians look at Orsini- Rosenberg.
Mozart hands him the score from which he is conducting.
He rips out a page.
Bonno watches in terror.
He goes on tearing the pages determinedly.
A servant opens the door to announce.
He grabs Salieri.
He kisses Salieri's hand.
Mozart giggles with relief and gratitude.
The Emperor steals in surreptitiously with Von Strack, his finger to his lips.
He motions everyone not to rise, and slips into a chair behind Salieri, Orsini-Rosenberg and Bonno.
The three conspirators look at each other wide-eyed.
The recitativo summons up the march, but instead there is silence.
Everyone on stage looks lost, though they attempt to go on with the story for a while.
Consternation grows on the faces of the conspirators.
Mozart glances back at the group seated in the theatre.
Finally, the Emperor speaks, in a whisper.
Mozart strains to hear what they are saying but cannot.
We do look at them.
Orsini-Rosenberg acknowledges his defeat.
Orsini-Rosenberg rises and goes down to where Mozart sits anxiously with the musicians, watching his approach.
CU, Salieri in his box, tears on his cheeks.
He watches the ensemble and we listen to it for a long moment.
He bows too, giggling.
Cavalieri, in a mythological Persian costume, is bowing to the rapturous throng; below her is Salieri.
We see the Emperor, Von Strack, Orsini-Rosenberg, Bonno and Von Swieten, all applauding.
Then suddenly at: CU, Mozart standing in a box and clapping wildly.
Behind him, seated, are Schikaneder and the three girls we saw before in Mozart's apartment.
CU, Salieri staring fixedly at Mozart, then Mozart still clapping, apparently with tremendous enthusiasm.
Salieri bows his head.
Joseph places the chain around his neck.
The crowd claps.
Salieri makes to kiss his hand, but Joseph restrains him, and passes on.
Cavalieri, smiling adoringly, gives him a deep curtsey, and he raises her up.
The crowd all flock to Salieri with cries and words of approval.
All want to shake his hand.
They tug and pat him.
But he has eyes for only one man - he looks about him, searching for him and then finds him.
Mozart stands there.
Eagerly Salieri moves to him.
Salieri smiles.
Explosive laughter as Mozart and Schikaneder enter the apartment, very pleased with themselves and accompanied by the three actresses.
The front door opens, very gingerly.
Mozart, still rather drunk, sticks his head into the room, anxious not to make a noise.
He sees the strangers and breaks into a smile.
He opens the door wide to admit Schikaneder and the girls.
Mozart stares.
On stage we see the huge figure of the Commendatore in robes and helmet, extending his arms and pointing in accusation.
On stage we see a huge nailed fist crash through the wall of a painted dining room set.
The giant armoured statue of the COMMENDATORE enters pointing his finger in accusation at Don Giovanni who sits at the supper table, staring - his servant Leporello quaking with fear under the table.
We see Salieri standing alone in the back of a box, unseen, in semi-darkness.
We also see that the theatre is only half full.
We watch the scene on stage as the Commendatore addresses Giovanni.
Then back to Salieri in the box.
On stage Don Giovanni is seized and gripped by the Statue's icy hand.
Flames burst from obviously artificial rocks.
Demons appear and drag the libertine down to Hell.
CU, Salieri, staring wide-eyed.
Schikaneder sits at the table, and drinks from a bottle of wine.
Michael Schlumberg comes in from his salon.
Mozart stands there looking very unwell and bewildered.
Mozart stares in panic.
Mozart springs up.
He is clearly terrified.
He runs out of he room, into his workroom, and shuts he door.
Now a little scared herself, Constanze goes to he front door and opens it cautiously.
Schikaneder stands there, floridly dressed as usual.
Lorl is seen peeking out from the kitchen.
He sees he manuscript on the table, and goes to it eagerly.
He picks up a page without waiting for a reply.
Mozart opens he workroom door.
We see him as Schikaneder sees him: wild-eyed, extremely pale and strange.
He giggles triumphantly.
Schikaneder stares at him.
Mozart, with a bright, rather demented smile presents his head to Schikaneder.
Schikaneder suddenly grabs his lapels.
A frightened and tearful Lorl sits before Salieri.
The room, lit by a few candles, appears dirty.
The camera shows us again Leopold's portrait on the wall, looking down upon a scene of disorder.
Papers litter the table; dirty dishes are piled in the fireplace; on the forte-piano lies Mozart's Masonic apron, woven with symbols.
We watch him stand beside Constanze, who lies asleep.
Mozart now looks very ill; his wife appears worn out.
Then he moves to the cot where his son Karl lies asleep and kneels, pulls up the child's little blanket and for a moment lays his own head down beside the boy's.
Constanze opens her eyes and stares at him.
Mozart rises and returns to.
Instantly Mozart starts to dance to it, all alone: gleefully, like a child.
He looks up at his father's portrait, and makes a silly, rude gesture at it.
He is, briefly, an irresponsible and happy boy again.
Then suddenly there is a gentle knocking at the door.
The music fades down.
Warily, Mozart crosses and opens he door.
Before him stands the masked stranger.
He turns and looks.
Constanze has come into the living room.
Nervously, Mozart indicates her.
Salieri contemplates them both.
He turns and goes down the stairs.
Mozart shuts the door.
He closes his eyes in fear.
He will not look at her or reply.
He looks at her suddenly.
Her tears flow.
Mozart looks at her helplessly.
And with a scream Madame Weber's voice turns into the shrill packing coloratura of the second act aria of the Queen of the Night, in The Magic Flute.
On stage we see the QUEEN OF THE NIGHT fantastically costumed, furiously urging her daughter to kill Sarastro.
As she sings, we see the interior of the theatre, now re-arranged from when we last visited it to watch the Cabaret.
An audience of ordinary German citizens stands in the pit area, or sits: they are rapt and excited.
The theatre also possesses boxes; some of these show closed curtains - their inhabitants presumably engaged in private intimacies.
In one of them sits Salieri.
He struggles to loosen his cravat.
Salieri moves to the door.
Salieri leaves the room.
Salieri goes to the front door and opens it to reveal Schikaneder, who has obviously come straight from the theatre.
He still wears his bird make-up and under his street cloak, his feathered costume is clearly seen.
He has with him the three actresses, also looking anxious and also in make-up as the three attendants in The Magic Flute.
Salieri pours the coins out of the bag onto the coverlet.
Mozart looks at the coins astonished.
He takes his pen.
Salieri writes the key signature.
He again hums the bass vocal line from the beginning, conducting.
Salieri stops writing.
He is now sitting bolt upright, hushed and inspired.
He sings the ostinato phrase twice.
The entire Confutatis bursts over the room, as Mozart snatches the manuscript pages from Salieri and reads from it, singing.
Salieri sits looking on in wondering astonishment.
A carriage is driving fast through the night.
The carriage is filled with passengers.
Among them Constanze and Karl, her young son.
They are sleepless and sway to the motion of the vehicle.
Mozart lying in bed exhausted, but still dictating urgently.
We do not hear what he is saying to Salieri, who still sits writing assiduously.
Mozart is looking very sick: sweat is pouring from his forehead.
The carriage, moving through the night, to the sound of the music.
Mozart still dictating; Salieri still writing without stop.
The carriage has arrived.
Constanze and her son alight with other passengers.
Postillions attend to the horses.
She takes her boy's hand.
It is a cold wintry dawn.
Mozart closes his eyes.
Salieri stares at him.
Constanze and Karl approach along the cobbled street, hand in hand toward their house.
Mozart lies asleep in the bed, holding the last pages of the manuscript.
Salieri lies across from him on Karl's small bed in his shirt sleeves and waistcoat.
The child's bed is obviously too small for him and he is forced in to a cramped position.
Constanze and Karl arrive at the door.
They enter.
It is as disordered as before, save that the table, previously littered with pages, is now completely bare.
Constanze looks at it with surprise and enters the bedroom.
Mozart is asleep in the bed.
Salieri is dozing on the nearby child's bed.
The room is full of the trailing smoke from guttering and guttered candles.
Startled by Constanze's entrance and her young son, Salieri scrambles up.
She notices a movement from the bed.
Mozart wakes.
He sees Constanze and smiles with real joy.
Forgetting Salieri, she goes to her husband.
She throws herself on the bed.
She looks at it and recognizes it.
She takes it from his weak hand.
At the same moment Salieri reaches out his hand to take it and add it to the pile on the table.
She stares at him, trying to understand - suspicious and frightened and at the same time unable to make a sound.
Mozart makes a convulsive gesture to reclaim the pages.
The coins brought by Salieri fall on the floor.
Karl runs after them, laughing.
She extends her hand for the Requiem, as she stands up.
Salieri hesitates.
She turns and faces him.
He stares at her, stunned.
Salieri ignores him and stares only at the priest, who stares back.
Mary looks at his smile, has to respond, pulls him to her, kisses him.
Then, and without breaking the kiss, she swings her legs over the side of the bed, toe-searches around, finds her shoes, slips her feet into searches them.
And finally pulls away and sits up.
She rises, goes to the bureau, takes a pair of small earrings out of her bag, begins putting them on, not bothering or perhaps not wanting to look at herself in the mirror.
Sam watches her, concerned but unable to inhibit his cheery, humorous good mood.
Throughout remainder of this scene, they occupy themselves with dressing, hair-combing, etc.
She stares at him, surprised at his willingness to continue the affair on her terms, as girls are so often surprised when they discover men will continue to want them even after the sexual bait has been pulled in.
Sam smiles reassuringly, places his hands gently on her arms, speaks with gentle and simple sincerity.
He moves away and again the weight of his pain and problems crushes away his good humor.
He looks at her, long, pulls her close, kisses her lightly, looks out the window and stares at the wide sky.
Mary goes out quickly, closing door behind her.
As Sam stares down at his shoeless feet.
A small, moderately successful office off the main street.
We see Mary get out of cab, pay driver, cross pavement to the office door.
Mary enters office, crosses to her desk, sits down, rubs her temples, finally looks over at Caroline, a girl in the last of her teens.
She rises, starts for Mary's desk, pills in hand.
She breaks off, distracted by the SOUND of the door opening.
MR. LOWERY and his oil-lease client, TOM CASSIDY enter the office.
Lowery flashes an embarrassed smile at Mary, tries to lead Cassidy toward the private office.
Cassidy pauses beside Mary's desk, hooks a haunch onto the desktop, smiles a wet smile at Mary.
Mary glances, cannot bring herself to smile or make some remark, continues sorting out the deed copies, tries to ignore the man's hot-breath closeness.
He rises, reels toward Lowery's office, pauses, turns, speaks to Mary, meaningfully.
Lowery starts after him, pauses, turns to Mary.
Cassidy has gone into Lower's office.
He starts quickly away when it looks like Cassidy is going to come and pull him bodily into the office.
When the men are gone and the door is closed, Caroline picks up a bundle, smiles at it.
Mary has put one bundle into a large envelope and takes the other from Caroline.
When the bills are away, she puts the filled envelope in her handbag, notices the remaining deed copies on her desk, picks them up, goes to the private office door, knocks, starts to open door as.
Mary opens door, looks in.
Cassidy is drinking from a large tumbler, winks at her without pausing in his drinking.
Mary remains on threshold a moment, then crosses to the desk, talking as she goes.
Mary slams down on the brake, tries to pull herself together.
The Patrolman raps again, less gently.
Reluctantly, Mary rolls down the window.
The Patrolman studies her for a moment.
Mary pulls her handbag up from the floor, where she'd placed it when she stretched out for sleep.
She puts her hand in it, rummages for her wallet, cannot find it.
The Patrolman is staring at her.
She glances at him nervously, pokes in her bag a bit more, sighs, realizes she'll have to remove some of its contents.
Nervously, badly controlling her fear, she takes out the money-filled envelope, and then the important papers envelope, filled then a couple of other items, places them on the seat, finally finds her wallet, opens it, hands it to him.
He looks at the wallet, then at the car.
The Patrolman walks around to the front of the car, checks the license plate, and returns.
The Patrolman peers in, checks the car registration on the steering wheel, returns Mary's wallet.
She takes it, looks at him for a flicker of a moment.
She starts ahead, fast.
As she drives, she glances into her rear-view mirror.
The Patrolman is following in his automobile, keeping behind her at a matched speed.
She glances out at her surroundings.
The Freeway ahead.
She suddenly turns off the highway.
She checks her mirror.
The Patrolman is no longer following, has not turned off after her.
She breathes a sigh of relief, thinks a moment, makes a quick decision.
Mary gets out of the car, glances toward the lot office, turns her attention to the line of cars, notice the California licence plates on all of them.
The CAR DEALER calls out from his office.
Mary nods, starts walking along the line of cars as if making a selection.
Her eye is caught by the iron newspaper stand on the corner, just outside the lot.
She stares at the papers, turns away, as if what she is fearing would have to be impossible, then, having to satisfy herself, goes to the stand, drops a dime in the iron slot, picks up a LOS ANGELES newspaper, starts back into the car lot as she glances worried at the front page.
As she goes, we see, coming up the street toward the lot, the same PATROLMAN.
He sees Mary, slows, swerves over to the opposite side of the street, stops by the curb.
Mary, engrossed in the newspaper, and walking back ease the lot, does not see the Patrolman.
The car dealer is out on the lot now, standing and waiting for Mary.
As she approaches, lost in her newspaper, he smiles.
She stops suddenly, almost with a gasp.
She has seen the Patrolman.
He is staring over at her, his face dispassionate.
Mary has to force herself to look away.
He starts into Mary's car.
She stands in the middle of the lot, feeling like a shooting target.
He still watches.
With a self-angry sigh of resignment, she goes to a close car, looks at it.
The Car Dealer is returning.
As the car dealer looks at her in amazement, she reaches into her bag, feels the money-filled envelope, pauses.
Mary pauses, turns, sees the Patrolman, then the Mechanic.
Then the Mechanic waves, starts forward with her suitcase.
The Mechanic smiles, throws the suitcase in.
Mary zooms off.
As she drives out of lot we see the Mechanic, the Car Dealer and the Patrolman all looking after her.
Mary is driving tensely.
CAMERA IS CLOSE on Mary's face now, recording her anxiety, her fears.
Mary looks weary, tired with strain and with hard driving.
Her eyes are heavy with worry and deep thought.
We can see that it is much later in the day, almost dusk.
Now we cut to the view of the road, from Mary's viewpoint.
Darkness of evening is coming.
In the dim twilight we see the neon sign of roadside restaurants and gas stations beginning to blaze on.
Back on Mary's face, and after a moment, the imagined voices again.
A flush of painful guilt and regret rises up in Mary's face.
The first oncoming headlights slash at the windshield.
The oncoming headlights blurt at her.
It is completely dark now, night.
Oncoming headlights throw a blinding light across her features.
Big drops of rain begin to appear.
She is becoming aware of the rain starting.
The rain increasing and backlit by the oncoming headlights.
Mary starts the windshield wipers.
The wipers are having a battle with the now torrential rain.
Peering through the blurred windshield.
slowing down in the flooding highway.
peering through the windshield.
The oncoming lights are fewer.
just blackness and rain.
peering.
An almost undiscernible light in the far distance, a neon sign blurred by the rain-sheeted windshield.
She presses down, forces the car to move on through the flooded road.
The lights are on within the office.
She tries door, finds it open, goes into office.
Mary goes to the desk, rings a small pushbell.
She looks off in another direction, slightly behind the office, and sees.
A path from the motel office leads directly up to this house.
There is a light on in one of the upstairs rooms.
A WOMAN passes the window, pauses, peers out.
We see her in clear silhouette.
She quickly goes away from the window.
Mary, having seen the woman, expects now that she will get some attention.
She dashes out into the rain, to her car, gets in, opens the side window, begins to honk the horn.
After a moment, a YOUNG MAN open the front door of the house, pauses, starts down the path.
Mary leaves her car, starts a dash for the shelter of the porch.
Seeing that Mary is on her way to the porch, he runs quickly, the umbrella unopened in his hand.
He gets to the porch a moment after Mary has reached it.
He stops short, looks at her, then at the umbrella hanging useless in his hand, then back to her.
He gestures her into the office, standing back to indicate that he will go after her.
She goes into the office.
The Young Man follows Mary in, closes the door.
He is NORMAN BATES, somewhere in his late twenties, thin and tall, soft- spoken and hesitant.
He is behind the counter now, pushing forward the registration book.
Mary has placed her handbag on the counter.
She takes the registration book, picks up the pen, is suddenly struck with the realization that she'd better use an alias.
She writes the name Marie Samuels.
He removes a key for Cabin One.
We see that there is a remaining key on the board.
He goes to door, opens it.
The rain has slowed down considerably.
Mary follows him to the door, goes out on the porch, waits and watches as Norman runs to her car, gets in, drives it to the parking space in front of Cabin One.
Mary walks along the porch, waits before the door of Cabin One.
Norman gets out of car, with suitcase, runs to the door, opens it, pushes the door open, puts his hand in and switches on a light.
Mary goes into the cabin.
Norman follows her.
Norman places suitcase on bed, goes to the window, opens it.
Mary closes the door, goes to suitcase, opens it, starts to take out a dress.
Her handbag is next to the suitcase.
She glances down into it, pauses, drops the dress, reaches into the handbag, takes out the money-filled envelope, stares at it, almost with regret, filled contemplates hiding it, decides to, starts looking for a reasonable hiding place.
She looks about, at the closet, the drawers etc., realizes all such places are obvious.
Catching sight of the newspaper in her bag, she hits on a solution.
She opens the newspaper, places the envelope within it, lock-folds the paper again and then places it on the bedside table as if it were there for later reading.
Mary walks slowly to the window, realizing that the terrible voice is coming from the house behind the cabins.
CAMERA FOLLOWS her to window and once there we see the light is still on in the upstairs bedroom and the voice is coming from that room.
Mary has stood by the window, listening with mounting distress and concern and sympathy.
She turns her face away now, gazes sadly at the little empty room.
Mary turns, looks out the window.
We see Norman coming down the path, carrying a napkin-covered tray.
Mary looks at him for a moment, then turns quickly, goes to the door, opens it and goes out onto the porch.
Mary pauses outside the door, is about to start forward when Norman comes round the building and walks along the porch, past the office, stopping only when he is close to her.
He stares with painful embarrassment at the knowing look in her eye.
She begins to back into her room.
Norman starts to follow, hesitates as he sees the total picture of an attractive young woman and a motel room.
Bringing down the tray of food, in defiance of his mother's orders, is about the limit of his defiance for one day.
Without waiting for approval or disapproval, he turns, hurries to the office.
Mary looks after him, her face showing amused sympathy, then follows.
Norman looks about, tray in hand, sees there is no reasonable place to spread out a supper.
He turns, sees Mary standing in the doorway.
As Norman goes about spreading out the bread and ham and pouring the milk, we follow Mary across the room.
She notices, too, the paintings on the wall; nudes, primarily, and many with a vaguely religious overtone.
Finally Mary reaches the sofa, sits down, looks at the spread.
Mary begins to eat, her attitude a bit tense.
She takes up a small slice of ham, bites off a tiny bite, nibbles at it in the manner of one disturbed and preoccupied.
Norman gazes at her, at the tiny bite she has taken, smiles and then laughs.
Mary looks at him, with some compression, smiles.
Norman turns, slowly, looking at her with a striking coldness.
The fury suddenly dies, abruptly and completely, and he sinks back into his chair.
Mary watches the troubled man, is almost physically pained by his anguish.
She goes out of the parlor.
We see her, from Norman's viewpoint, as she crosses the small office, goes out into the night.
He goes into the office and looks at the book.
He goes back into the parlor with a mystified expression.
Norman turns his ear from the direction of the SOUNDS, seems to be fighting an impulse to listen, or more than listen.
Now Norman looks at a picture hanging on the far end of the wall he is leaning against.
He reaches it, touches it, reluctantly lifts the small frame off the wall.
A tiny circle of light hits Norman's face, coming from the hole in the wall behind the picture.
This end of the room is very dim and thus we are able to see clearly the light striking Norman's face.
We move close to Norman, extremely close, until his profile fills the screen.
The tiny spot of light hits his eye.
See the small hole through which the light comes.
Norman peeps through.
Through the hole we look into Mary's cabin, see Mary undressing.
She is in her bra and halfslip.
She stoops over a bit, places her hands behind her upper back, begins to unhook her bra.
He watches as Mary removes her bra.
We see his eye run up and down the unseen figure of Mary.
Mary, just slipping into a robe, covering her complete nudity.
He turns from the hole, faces us for a moment, continues turning until he can look out the small parlor window.
Quickly, precisely, he rehangs the picture over the hole in the wall, turns, starts out of the parlor.
We see him go through the office and out onto the porch, not even bothering to close the door behind him.
Norman walking along the porch, in the direction of the big house.
Once on the path he pauses, looks up at the light in the bedroom window, then pulls himself up, squares his shoulders, strides manfully up the path.
He opens the door of the house, enters.
We see him pause at the foot of the stairway, look up at the bedroom door just at the head of the stair.
He by- passes the stairs and slowly makes his way to the kitchen.
At the far end of the hall.
He enters the kitchen, drops wearily into a chair.
Mary is seated at the small desk, engrossed in figuring in a small notebook.
After a moment she tears the page out of the notebook and, rising, begins to rip it into small pieces.
She goes into the bathroom, drops the pieces into the toilet bowl, flushes the toilet.
Then she drops her robe and steps into the tub and turns the shower on.
For a moment we watch Mary as she washes and soaps herself.
Now we see the bathroom door being pushed slowly open.
And we see the shadow of a woman fall across the shower curtain.
Mary's back is turned to the curtain.
Suddenly we see the hand reach up, grasp the shower curtain, rip it aside.
A look of pure horror erupts in her face.
A low terrible groan begins to rise up out of her throat.
A hand comes into the shot.
The hand holds an enormous bread knife.
Over it the brief gulps of screaming.
And then the dreadful thump as Mary's body falls in the tub.
Above the shower-bar we see the bathroom door open again and after a moment we HEAR the SOUND of the front door slamming.
Lying half in, half out of the tub, the head tumbled over, touching the floor, the hair wet, one eye wide open as if popped, one arm lying limp and wet along the tile floor.
Coming down the side of the tub, running thick and dark along the porcelain, we see many small threads of blood.
CAMERA FOLLOWS away from the body, travels slowly across the bathroom, past the toilet, out into the bedroom.
As CAMERA approaches the bed, we see the folded newspaper as Mary placed it on the bedside table.
beside the bed.
The CAMERA now moves away over to the window and looks up to the house, and as it gets there we HEAR, coming from within the house, the SOUND of Norman's fearful, shocked voice.
She stops, the anxiety and fear building up in her, her eyes beginning to fill with worried tears.
Sam studies her for a moment, then turns and calls.
Bob gets the message, goes out through the back way.
Sam goes closer to Lila, speaks with soft seriousness.
And Arbogast studies it, then speaks.
He nods, takes down the closed-for-lunch sign, sails it to the counter, opens door, goes out into the street.
Norman is holding the door open, so Arbogast walks in.
Norman switches on the overhead light, starts for the linen closet, suddenly pauses, turns, studies Arbogast, who has remained standing by the door.
He waits a moment, then opens closet, starts counting out sheets and pillow cases, keeps his back to Arbogast.
Arbogast takes a photograph out of his pocket, talks as he crosses to Norman.
Norman glances, briefly, turns away, lifts sheets and pillow cases off the shelf holds them close, almost protectively.
He goes to the wall, flips a light switch.
He takes a slip of paper out of his pocket, lays it beside the signature in the registry book, all the while nodding and smiling nicely, as if this discovery will make Norman as happy as it is making him.
Arbogast has reached him, the picture extended.
Norman looks dutifully at it.
Norman becomes apprehensive, starts to Arbogast, forcing himself to remain calm and cheerful.
Arbogast turns, gazes seriously at him.
Norman looks up, studies the man's face, his own face showing apprehension.
As he turns the car out, his headlights light up the porch.
Norman stands, watching him drive away.
The car pulls up and Arbogast gets out of car, leaving motor running.
As he starts to walk across the highway, CAMERA PULLS AWAY and we.
Arbogast gets to the phone booth, enters.
CAMERA STARTS FORWARD, and we see Arbogast remove a small notebook from his pocket, check on a number, drop a dime in the slot and dial this number.
He hangs up, gets out of the phone booth.
A distant view of the House and Motel.
There is a light on in the house.
There is also a light on in Norman's office.
We see Norman emerge from his office and move along the porch toward the distant cabins.
He carries sheets on his arm.
He goes into the last cabin and switches the light on.
Into the foreground the hood of the white Ford enters the scene and stops.
Arbogast gets out.
He goes over to the Motel office.
Arbogast goes in.
Arbogast looks around the empty office and calls.
He goes over to the door to the parlor and enters.
He looks around the bird-ridden room.
goes over to it.
He finds it unlocked.
With a quick, cautious look around he opens it.
straightens up and goes out.
He goes off.
dashes up the stone steps to the House.
CAMERA HOLDS as Arbogast goes up onto the porch.
The house is dark within except, as we can now see, for a faint spill of light in the foyer, light which comes from the upstairs hall.
After a careful wait, he crosses to the stairs, starts up, slowly, guardedly, placing a foot squarely on each step to test it for squeaks or groans before placing his full weight on it.
CAMERA FOLLOWS, remaining on floor level but TRAVELLING ALONG the stairway as Arbogast makes his way up.
We see Arbogast coming up the stairs.
And now we see, too, the door of the mother's room, opening, carefully and slowly.
As Arbogast reaches the landing, the door opens and the mother steps out, her hand raises high, the blade of an enormous knife flashing.
The knife slashes across his cheek and neck.
Blood spurts.
He stumbles back and staggers down the whole of the staircase.
He frantically gropes for the balustrade as he goes backwards down the stairs.
As he collapses at the bottom, the black head and shoulders of Mrs. Bates plunges into the foreground as the CAMERA MOVES IN to contain the raising and descending murder weapon.
Lila is sitting close by the phone, and looks as if she hasn't moved from it in the last hour.
Sam is pacing, occasionally stopping at the window, glancing out, pacing again.
There is a thick atmosphere of smoke, tension and weariness in the small, otherwise cozy room.
Sam stares at her, frowns in concern over her very real anxiety, goes to the phone, dials operator.
He starts for the door.
Lila follows after him into the store.
He pauses halfway down, turns, puts his hands on her arms.
The silhouette of Norman.
He is still.
Norman turns slowly until, in silhouette, we see his profile, his chin lowered furtively as he looks over his shoulder in the direction of the house.
The store is in darkness, only the glow from the back room spilling in.
With CAMERA placed with its back to the street door, we can see the distant tiny figure of Lila seated and waiting in the back room beyond.
The tiny figure jumps up and runs all the way from the back room down the aisle of hardware and comes into a BIG HEAD.
From her viewpoint we see Sam alighting from his truck and coming toward the door of the store.
He enters.
He and Lila exchange quiet glances.
She feels his pause, turns, and for a moment they share at each other across the darkened room.
She hands the receiver to the Sheriff.
He takes it, reluctantly, listens to the dim sound of RINGING on the other end.
Sam and Lila stare at the Sheriff.
The Sheriff stares at both of them, and when he finally speaks there is an almost inaudible tone or irony in his voice.
Norman sits in the dim, one-lamp light, the phone next to him, his hand still near it as if he had not been able to move his hand after hanging up.
He is staring at the shrike- like bird which is perched on the lamp shade.
Suddenly he rises, starts quickly out of the room, tries to switch off the lamp as he goes and in so doing succeeds only in knocking the bird off the shade.
Then he puts out the lamp, goes out, crosses the darkened office and goes outside.
Norman comes off the porch, walks to the path and directly up to the house, opens the door and goes in.
Norman goes up, pauses one moment outside his mother's door, then opens it and goes in, leaving the door open.
He moves away and the others follow.
She smiles brightly, as if having invited them over to discuss this year's charity fandango, takes the Sheriff's arm, starts away.
The Sheriff nods as he goes.
Sam and Lila are alone now, at the curb, before the deserted chapel.
As the truck drives off.
Sam takes Lila's arm.
He starts with her toward the path which leads to the old house.
CAMERA PANS with them, and as they turn around the office corner, they see Norman coming down the path toward them.
They pause and Norman pauses.
Norman walks past Sam, giving him the sort of quick, disapproving glance one gives a man who is obviously lying, goes onto the porch and into the office.
Sam and Lila follow Norman.
Norman crosses to the desk, goes behind it, takes the key to cabin number twelve off the keyboard.
Sam and Lila have entered and are almost to the desk-counter by this time.
Sam eyes scan the counter, looking for a registration book.
Lila moves closer, studies the book as Sam signs in.
When Sam has finished he closes book, hands it back to Norman.
As he starts for the door, Sam laughs.
Norman stops, turns, looks at him.
Sam smiles as if at a funny remark, takes a bill out of his pocket.
Norman goes reluctantly behind counter, lays down the key to cabin twelve, takes a receipt book out of the drawer under counter, starts to write.
Lila steps up to the desk, picks up the key, quickly, starts out.
Norman looks up, gazes her as she goes out door.
Lila comes along the porch, pauses before cabin one, tries the door.
It opens.
She closes it quickly as she hears Sam and Norman coming out of the motel office, continues on down the porch.
Sam considers a moment, nods agreement, rises.
He goes to the door, opens it slightly, looks out, then, back to Lila.
Lila goes to the door.
He holds it open and she goes out.
Sam closes the door, joins Lila, takes her hand.
Together they walk along the porch in the direction of Cabin One.
They pause before the door of Cabin One.
Sam motions Lila to wait, to hold still, then goes on to the office, opens the door, calls in.
Sam lifts the piece of paper off her finger, studies it, takes out his wallet, presses the wet scrap to his driver's license shield, puts it back in the wallet and puts the wallet away.
She starts out of the bathroom.
Sam takes hold of her arm, stops her.
Lila nods quickly, hurries to the door.
Sam gets to it first, opens it a slight crack, looks out, then opens it wide enough for Lila and Himself to pass through.
ANGLE CLOSE on cabin one as Lila comes out, turns to her left, goes along porch toward cabin twelve.
Sam remains at the door, then turns right, heading for the path.
As he passes the office, he is shocked to see Norman standing just inside the open door.
Sam starts into the office.
She watches Sam disappear into the office, waits until she hears the door close, then looks about for another way to reach the house.
She sees the small alley at the end of this L of cabins, starts toward it.
She looks ahead.
The old house standing against the sky.
Lila moves forward.
The CAMERA approaching the house.
She moves on.
The house coming nearer.
Lila looks up at the house.
She moves forward purposefully.
The house and the porch.
Lila stops at the house and looks up.
She turns to the house again.
The CAMERA MOUNTS the steps to the porch.
Lila's hand pushes the door open.
We see the hallway.
Lila ENTERS PAST CAMERA.
Lila closes the door, remains by it for a moment, quiet, listening.
Norman is behind the counter, standing, staring at Sam who is sitting relaxedly on a small sofa.
Lila is halfway up the stairs.
CAMERA remains at foot of stair, TILTING UP as Lila climbs.
She pauses at the head of the stair.
The door on her right, which opens into the mother's room, is closed.
There is quiet for a moment, then the door begins to open, and we see Lila.
She stands on the threshold, looking in at the room, instantly disturbed by it, almost chilled, her expression indicating an impulse to close the door and go away from this room forever.
After a moment, she enters, leaving the door open behind her.
The bed is four poster, but uncanoped; the dressing table is fancy and flounced with satin; there is a great chiffonier, a big-doored wardrobe, a large, oval, full- length pier-glass (this against the wall directly opposite the door), a satin recamier, an upholstered armchair by the window, a white marble fireplace, its grate cold but piled with ashes.
Lila glances at the bed.
Lila stares at it for a moment, up, then goes to the dressing table.
Lila moves on, catches a glimpse of herself in the pier-glass, is startled, turns away, goes to the chiffonier, is about to open a drawer, sees the high wardrobe out of the corner of her eyes, goes to it, hesitantly.
She opens one door.
Fresh, clean, well pressed dresses hang neatly.
Lila comes out of the mother's room, closes the door behind her, looks down the stairs, then starts across the hall to the room whose door is half-open.
Lila pauses on the threshold, reaches in, feels the wall, throws on a switch.
Sam has risen, is standing by the counter now.
He turns his head, glances out the window at the old house.
Lila goes into the room.
Lila goes to the chair, touches it.
The touch disturbs the figure.
It starts to turn, slowly, stiffly, a clock-wise movement.
Lila looks at it in horror.
It is the body of a woman long dead.
The skin is dry and pulled away from the mouth and the teeth are revealed as in the skeleton's smile.
The eyes are gone from their sockets, the bridge of the nose has collapsed, the hair is dry and wild, the cheeks are sunken, the leathery-brown skin is powdered and rouged and flaky.
The body is dressed in a high-neck, clean, well-pressed dress, obviously recently laundered and hand-ironed.
Lila gazes for one flicker of a deathly moment, then begins to scream, a high, piercing, dreadful scream.
And Lila's scream is joined by another scream, a more dreadful, horrifying scream which comes from the door behind her.
A young man with a serious, frowning face has just come into the room.
Everyone gazes at him, mystified.
He speaks as he removes lid from coffee container.
A POLICE GUARD puts his head in the door, speaks, in a near- whisper, to the Chief of Police.
The Guard is carrying a folded blanket over his arm.
The Chief of Police nods.
The Guard goes away, and CAMERA FOLLOWS him out of the room and out into the hallway.
Guard moves through the waiting men, heading down the corridor.
A narrower corridor in the rear of the building.
of shot, we see a door, the top half of which is wire-covered glass.
A GUARD in uniform is posted by the door, looking reprovingly at the two or three people trying to get a glance into the room.
The Police Guard, carrying the blanket, comes down this corridor, goes to the door.
The uniformed Guard opens the door, allows the man to go in.
After a moment, the Guard comes out and the uniformed Guard closes and locks the door and we.
The walls are white and plain.
The room has a quality of no-whereness, of calm separation from the world.
Norman continues to gaze ahead into nothing.
The chain is attached to Mary's car.
The car is coming out of the swamp.
Malcolm points to the HUGE FRAMED CERTIFICATE propped up on a dining room chair.
It's printed on aged parchment-type paper.
The frame is a polished mahogany.
He slips on the sweatshirt.
Her attention slowly moves to the framed certificate.
She leans forward her seat and reads the certificate out loud as Malcolm tries to tickle her.
Anna turns to Malcolm.
He smiles.
Anna takes his hands and holds them steady.
Anna lets go of his hands.
Anna's eyes are emotional.
Anna leans towards him.
They hold each other tight.
THEIR SWEET LAUGHTER FILLS THE HOUSE.
TWO GIGGLING SHADOWS APPEAR IN THE BEDROOM DOORWAY.
They try to turn on the light.
The stranger slowly looks up for the first time.
His eyes lock on Malcolm.
The stranger suddenly comes forward into the doorway.
Malcolm stumbles back onto the edge of the bed.
Anna sees the stranger for the first time.
Her face drains of color.
The stranger looks at Malcolm.
He half grins.
Anna's expression instanly changes.
The stranger turns and glares at Malcolm.
Malcolm stops all movement.
Malcolm stands.
Tears fall down the stranger's face.
Malcolm looks up at the sound of those words.
VINCENT GRAY stares with surprise through his tears.
Malcolm lets out a deep breath like he just emerged from deep waters.
Vincent's eyes burn at Malcolm.
VINCENT is fully crying now.
Vincent turns to the sink.
His hand goes in.
He turns around and raises a gun at Malcolm.
He FIRES.
Malcolm clutches his stomach and folds like a rag doll onto the bed.
Vincent instantly moves the gun to his own head.
Handwritten notes fill every line.
He glances through the page.
Words and phrases are circled throughout the file.
Malcolm sits on a sidewalk bench facing a row of brownstone homes across the street.
He gazes blankly at the brownstones.
A door opens.
Malcolm is brought out of his trance.
COLE SEAR steps out his front door.
Cole is a munchkin of a boy with large, black eyes that seem to take in everything around him.
His hair is dark, with a small patch of jet white on the side.
Cole carefully locks the door behind him.
The eight-year-old child reaches into his pocket and slips on a pair of VERY LARGE GLASSES.
They look comical on him.
Malcolm rises to his feet.
When he looks up, Cole is gone.
Malcolm barely catches a glimpse of the boy.
Cole runs at full speed down the street and turns the corner.
He stuffs the file in his bag and starts running too.
Malcolm hauls down the sidewalk.
He comes to a hard stop at a street intersection.
COLE sprints across the empty lot and reaches the doors of a building.
He has to use all his strength to push open the highly ornate doors.
He slips inside.
Its old stone and huge towers make it stand out from the modern buildings all around it.
Malcolm stares up at the historic Philadelphia church quietly.
Only a few people sit and pray in the sea of oak pews.
Malcolm scans the majestic room and finds what he's looking for in the last row of the church.
He moves down the center aisle towards the back.
Malcolm finds Cole playing in his pew with a set of green and beige plastic soldiers.
Cole makes the soldiers talk to each other.
Cole stays rigid.
Hands clutching a handful of plastic riflemen.
Malcolm nods at the information.
Malcolm smiles at Cole.
His eyes drift down to Cole's arms.
Cole's arms are covered in TINY CUTS AND BRUISES.
Cole and Malcolm just stare at each other.
She closes them one at a time before moving to the coffee machine.
Lynn walks over to Cole.
Checks his tie.
Lynn unclips the tie.
Cole takes a seat at the kitchen table as Lynn walks back into the laundry room.
The dog is gone now.
Lynn reaches into the dryer, digging for a new tie.
She finds one, then turns and steps back into the kitchen and SCREAMS AT THE TOP OF HER LUNGS.
Every cabinet and every drawer is wide open.
Cole sits at the kitchen table.
His hands are pressed flat on the tabletop.
He looks shaken.
Neither says anything for a beat.
Lynn looks over to the open cabinet near the sink.
The pop tarts are clearly visible.
Lynn leans down.
Cole does.
He looks at her eyes.
Cole turns to see Lynn holding the pop tarts.
He walks back and takes them from her before leaving.
Lynn glances to the kitchen table.
Her gaze stops on the TWO TINY HAND PRINTS OF SWEAT formed on the table's surface.
TOMMY TAMMISIMO is a tough-looking, eight-year-old Italian kid who waits at the bottom of Cole's brownstone stairs in his school uniform.
Cole emerges from the brownstone and moves down the steps.
The two boys begin their walk down the street to school.
Tommy puts his arm around Cole.
Cole waves back.
When the two boys turn the corner and are out of Lynn's sight, Tommy rips his arm away.
Cole starts to smile too.
He thinks.
Cole and Lynn smile at each other.
Lynn takes Cole's school bag and jacket before moving to the kitchen.
The den doubles as a playroom.
Boxes of old toys sit in the corner.
A small, plastic, multi-colored table sits on the rug.
Cole appears in the doorway.
Malcolm sits up and smiles.
He points to the chair on the other side of the coffee table.
He closes his eyes tight.
Cole, surprised, takes a small step forward.
Cole takes a step.
Malcolm opens his eyes.
He looks right at Cole.
Cole takes another step.
The next step will put him at the chair.
Malcolm lowers his fingers from his temple.
Malcolm smiles.
Malcolm looks to Cole's arm.
Cole is wearing A LARGE SILVER WATCH.
It swims on his thin wrist.
Malcolm closes his eyes.
Cole takes a step BACK.
Malcolm lowers his hands surprised.
Malcolm puts his fingers to his temple.
He gazes at Cole's school uniform.
Cole takes a slow step back.
Cole answers by taking a small step back.
Malcolm looks down at Cole's feet.
Cole is very still.
Malcolm takes his time before speaking.
He just stares.
Cole quietly takes a step back into the doorway of the other room.
Cole's tiny figure steps away.
Malcolm hurriedly enters a spacious, dimly-lit Italian restaurant.
He finds Anna.
Anna sits alone at a corner table.
A small PIECE OF CAKE WITH A CANDLE in it sits untouched.
Anna stirs sugar in her coffee as Malcolm sits in the seat across from her.
Anna quietly takes a sip from her coffee.
She glances across the table, then looks down.
Malcolm demonstrates by holding up his arm to shield his face.
Malcolm stops walking.
The words hit him hard.
He stares at Cole.
Cole is surprised.
Cole is playing behind the couch.
All we see is the top of his head.
Every now and then we get glimpses of things Cole is playing with peeking over the back of the couch, but we can't quite make out what he's doing.
The top of Cole's head stops moving.
Cole has become very still.
He looks right at Malcolm.
Malcolm watches him carefully.
He rises and grabs his coat.
Cole's brow furrows as he thinks about it carefully.
Malcolm turns back to Cole.
Cole's sad eyes stare up at Malcolm.
The surface of Malcolm's desk is covered with open texts.
Malcolm pours over a thick reference book.
He circles a phrase.
His face turns up to the ceiling.
Malcolm gets up and moves closer to their voices as he stretches his legs.
Malcolm smiles at Anna.
Malcolm slowly stops smiling.
Malcolm shakes his head in disbelief.
Mr. Cunningham turns and stares at his class of eight and nine year old private school students.
Cole rests his chin on his desk and watches the class with big eyes.
Stanley Cunningham looks over the class of blank faces.
He's just about to answer his own question when he sees a hand go up.
Mr. Cunningham looks surprised to see who it is.
Mr. Cunningham furrows his brow.
Mr. Cunningham chuckles.
Cole's face turns cement grey.
Tommy Tammisimo leads the class in a wave of snickering.
Cole glances up.
Sees all the eyes on him.
He glances at the teacher who is still staring.
Mr. Cunningham sees the traumatized expression on Cole's face and instantly stops smiling.
Mr. Cunningham's face becomes still.
The class falls into stunned silence.
Mr. Cunningham takes an involuntary step towards Cole's desk.
Mr. Cunningham moves closer to Cole.
Cole covers his eyes with his hands.
We see Cole's mouth under his covered eyes.
Cole stares for a second.
Cole lowers his head.
Malcolm just sits and thinks.
Cole turns his head and stares at the windows.
Malcolm takes in the sad vision of this boy.
Cole's face softens a bit.
He turns from the windows and looks to Malcolm.
He places it in his right hand.
Malcolm shakes his hand in circles.
Cole watches his hand carefully.
Malcolm taps the pocket but doesn't open it.
Malcolm opens his right hand.
The penny sits quietly in the center of his palm.
Cole looks at the penny and then up to Malcolm's face.
Cole cracks a smile.
Cole smiles and holds out his hand.
His fingers open to reveal the penny.
Bobby stares.
Cole loses his smile.
Cole and the overweight boy stare at each other.
Cole gives the boy his penny.
Cole gazes at Bobby.
Tommy glances down the hall and sees Cole standing frozen staring at the crawl space closet.
Tommy grabs Darren.
Tommy nudges Darren to move down the hall.
Cole breaks from his trance as Tommy and Darren walk up.
It happens too quick for Cole to react.
Darren and Tommy shove Cole backwards.
He stumbles into the darkness of the crawl space.
Tommy slams the door closed.
They crack smiles at each other as Cole bangs on the door.
The BANGING GOES ON FOR A FEW SECONDS AND THEN IT JUST STOPS.
Darren and Tommy look at each other and then back at the crawl space door.
Darren and Tommy back away from the door as COLE SCREAMS IN TERROR at the top of his lungs.
HIS BODY SLAMMING AGAINST THE WOOD.
The two boys are statues as Cole's BLOOD-CHILLING YELLS FILL.
FOOTSTEPS SPIKE THE AIR AS children and mothers come running down the hall.
Lynn is one of them.
Malcolm's affected by his client.
Malcolm stares at the tired child sitting before him in the hospital bed.
He slowly moves the rolling chair closer to Cole's bed.
Malcolm breaks from his thoughts and looks at Cole who watches him with unwavering attention.
Malcolm smiles.
Cole takes an eternal pause.
Malcolm just gazes quietly.
Malcolm is very still and stares at Cole.
Malcolm's hand with the tape recorder drops to his side.
Malcolm stares into the night.
He stands alone as thoughts crash like thunder in his head.
The front door opens, Lynn carries Cole in.
He's asleep on her shoulder.
She carries him down the hall to his BEDROOM.
Lynn lays Cole gently on his bed next to his German Shepherd Puppy.
Lynn watches the two youngsters sleep for a moment.
Cole is curled up asleep with a tiny party hat clutched in his hands.
Lynn has been carrying Cole's sweater from over her shoulder.
She pulls it off and begins to fold it.
Her attention is drawn to the sweater.
She fingers the fabric of the back.
IT'S RIPPED.
Her eyes move to Cole.
In the middle of the back of his T-shirt are THREE SMALL TEARS.
Lynn pushes the fabric open with her fingers and sees DEEP FINGERNAIL LIKE SCRATCHES on his skin.
Lynn looks around helplessly, fear creeping into her eyes.
The house seems threateningly still.
An unnatural silence fills each room of the house.
The thermostat on the wall now reads, fifty-two degrees.
The door opens a crack.
Cole's tiny face peeks out.
Eyes scan the darkness.
The door opens a little bit more.
Cole's knees are pressed together.
His body dances a little.
Cole has to pee.
He moves cautiously into the hall.
Cole moves briskly to a door halfway down the corridor.
Cole turns on the LIGHT IN THE BATHROOM.
He checks behind the shower curtain, before he turns his back and pees into the toilet.
Cole instantly stops peeing.
His body becomes very still.
He slowly reaches for the toilet handle and flushes.
He closes his pants and turns.
He just stands there and stares into the darkness of the hall.
HIS BREATH FORMS TINY CLOUDS IN THE COLD AIR.
Cole finally steps out into the hallway.
His eyes catch a SLANT OF LIGHT now coming from the kitchen.
He moves down the hall and turns the corner -- coming to a stop in the doorway of the kitchen.
Cole stares at the back of a person cooking food on the stove.
Cole's fear slowly fades away.
Cole's face turns the color of ash.
Cole backs up to the doorway.
The woman smiles menacingly as she thrusts her wrists forward.
They've been savagely cut.
Cole turns and runs down the hall.
Cole runs across his room.
He scurries in.
His legs disappear as the bedsheets flap closed behind him.
The crazed woman stands at the end of the hall.
Cole is curled up in the tent.
The red interior of the tent gets LIP UP.
The bedsheet walls of the tent are lined with religious pictures taped to the walls.
Tiny statues of saints surround the interior perimeter.
We see the statue Cole stole from the church is in here.
This tent is a sanctuary made by an eight-year-old to hide in.
Some are villagers, others are dressed as trees and animals.
Cole comes on stage holding a painted cardboard monkey.
The arched halls of the private school are lined with posted drawings and test papers.
Cole and Malcolm walk down an empty hall.
They continue down the hall in silence.
Malcolm takes his time.
Malcolm stops at a set of doors at the end of the hall -- realizes Cole is no longer next to him.
Malcolm turns to find Cole frozen about ten feet back.
Malcolm walks to him.
He notices Cole's expression as he gets closer.
Climbing ropes hang from the wood beamed ceiling.
Malcolm looks to Cole and then turns back to the ceiling.
Malcolm's body becomes very still.
Malcolm looks at the wood beams and climbing ropes.
Malcolm glances at Cole.
Malcolm turns back to Cole, he finds the child with tears in his eyes.
Cole looks at Malcolm desperately.
Malcolm stares helplessly.
A BLACK MAN in britches and no shirt, face beaten to a pulp, hangs in the center.
A WHITE WOMAN in a torn white frilly dress -- tears soaking her face, hangs to the right.
A small MIXED RACE CHILD in half pants, hangs to their left.
The family stares at Cole.
Lynn fiddles with the dials.
Cole is standing before the beat-up twelve inch kitchen T.V.
ON THE TELEVISION SCREEN is Tommy Tammisimo.
He stands in his pajamas in a doorway.
Cole removes the gloves from his hand and places them next to his plate.
Cole moves them to the floor.
Lynn is irritated, this is a sore point between them.
Lynn and Cole eat quietly.
Cole looks up.
An anxious expression on his face.
Cole just stares.
Cole looks down at his lap.
Lynn just stares at Cole.
Lynn folds her napkin quietly.
Cole's eyes start to water up.
Cole just stares at his mother's expression.
Cole gets up -- never taking his eyes off his mother -- and leaves the room.
Cole enters the DARK HALLWAY.
He gets startled by the SOUND.
Sebastian comes racing down the hall and scurries past Cole.
Cole watches his puppy dart into the living room and under a couch.
Cole slowly turns back and looks down the hall.
THE DOOR TO COLE'S ROOM SITS AT THE END OF THE CORRIDOR.
Cole stops breathing.
Cole is too terrified to move.
Lynn is kneeling on the kitchen floor trying to coax the puppy out of the broom closet.
Lynn fights back some tears.
Lynn hugs him.
Cole just closes his eyes and holds his mom tight.
We are in an antique store.
Filled floor to ceiling with furniture and knickknacks.
Anna stands with a YOUNG COUPLE.
All three lean over and peer into a glass cabinet.
An antique engagement ring sits on a velvet stand.
The young woman looks at her beau.
She places it in their hands.
The young woman looks at Anna with great intrigue.
The young man throws an odd glance at his fiance.
The young man and the young woman gaze at Anna silently.
They look down at the ring.
Anna moves to the back desk where SEAN comes out.
He's carrying an antique bench in his arms.
He places it down and takes a much needed seat.
Anna looks over to find Sean standing at his desk where a BIRTHDAY PRESENT sits on his tabletop.
Sean looks at her.
Malcolm looks up sharply.
Cole is crying now.
A long pause.
They both just stare.
Cole searches for the answer in Malcolm's eyes.
Cole pushes it across the table.
Malcolm gazes at it, then looks up at Cole's pained eyes.
Malcolm sits stoically at his desk in his basement.
Malcolm leans his head back against the chair.
Stares into the shadows.
Malcolm's eyes scan the room and come to a stop on a box marked with the label.
A tape slides into the tape player seated on Malcolm's desk.
Malcolm's eyes are locked on the spool of audio tape as it spins in the player.
Malcolm's fingers move to the volume dial.
He turns it way up.
THE STATIC NOISE FROM THE TAPE FILLS THE BASEMENT.
Cole holds up his plastic rifleman.
Malcolm's eyes show he understands now.
Malcolm glances around the empty church before looking back up to Cole.
Cole looks nervous.
Cole and Malcolm stand silently in the center aisle of the back of the church.
Malcolm moves around the corner on his street.
His mind surges with thoughts.
And then he glances up.
His steps slow to a complete stop.
Further down the sidewalk, coming out of the front door of his house is SEAN.
Malcolm's face turns to stone.
He watches as Sean comes down the front stairs and starts across the street.
Malcolm moves towards Sean fast.
Sean reaches his car and enters it.
Sean pulls away into traffic almost hitting another car as he does.
Malcolm watches the car disappear down the next street.
Malcolm turns and looks up at his home with unchecked anger and overwhelming pain erupting his eyes.
Cole quickly gets up and rushes out of the tent.
He stumbles out.
A table with a sewing machine fills the other side of the room.
HIS MOTHER'S VOICE turns his attention back to the bed.
Cole looks down and finds his mother laying in her bed.
Her face contorted in deep sadness as she speaks in her sleep.
Touches her face with his tiny fingers.
Cole holds her stare with trembling eyes.
He opens his mouth -- it takes a while before the words come out.
A downtown Septa public bus.
Malcolm and Cole are among the spattering of passengers.
They're both wearing suits.
Cole leans his head against the glass of the scratched window.
Cole's large eyes drink in the passing scenery.
Malcolm slips back into silence.
The city bus slithers through the old Philadelphia streets working its way downtown.
Rows of parked cars spill out from the driveway onto the streets.
People in suits and dark dresses move somberly in and out of the front door of the home.
Cole and Malcolm join the visitors as they walk slowly towards the doors.
A frail, little girl about four years of age sits in a dark dress on the swings in front of the house.
The home is packed with people.
The gathering of mourners is standing room only.
The AIR IS FILLED WITH DOZENS OF HUSHED.
Cole turns and stares quietly at the door.
He waits a long time before reaching for the doorknob.
He turns and gazes at the girl's bedroom.
There's a hospital bed near the window.
The walls are covered with get-well cards and drawings from family, friends, and school children.
Her shelves are filled with puppets.
Next to the shelf is a puppet stage and a camcorder on a mini tripod sitting next to it.
Cole walks to the shelf and picks up a FINGER PUPPET DANCER.
He places it in his pocket.
On the girl's desk, is a large collection of video cassettes.
Cole reads the labels carefully before moving towards the closets.
He watches as the girl's hand slips back under the bed.
Cole stays very still.
Waits.
He slowly bends down.
His hands touch the floor.
He tilts his head and looks under the bed.
The emaciated little girl who came to his tent lays curled on the floor.
Her bulging eyes glare at Cole.
She moves suddenly.
Thrusts a jewelry box forward.
It slides across the wooden floor and stops just before Cole.
Cole and the sickly girl stare at each other.
The room is thick with mourners.
Most are gathered around the GIRL'S MOTHER, a young woman in her late twenties.
Malcolm watches breathlessly from the doorway as Cole moves through the many adults across the room.
The girl's father, MR. COLLINS, a thin man in his late twenties, is seated on the reading chair next to a T.V.
He stares statue-like at an abstract point in the room.
The man slowly turns and looks down at the boy standing next to him.
Cole is very shaky.
Malcolm watches everything anxiously.
Cole stares at Mr. Collins.
The man's face begins to crumble.
Cole holds out the jewelry box.
It trembles with his hands.
The father just stares at it.
The father becomes very still.
His eyes fill with a storm of confusion and pain.
After the longest time, the father reaches and gently takes the box out of Cole's small hands.
Cole begins to back away.
The father gazes at Cole as he melts into the crowd.
Cole reaches Malcolm and the two then slip out of the house.
The father looks down in a daze.
He goes to open the jewelry box.
His movements are slow and strained.
He lifts the latch and open the box.
Mr. Collins stares at an unlabeled video cassette.
Mr. Collins is seated now.
Her father's face forms the most heartbreaking of smiles as he watches the performance.
The puppets go limp.
The entire stage gets lifted up.
We see it carried away by Kyra.
We can view the whole bedroom now.
The camera is seated on her desk in the corner.
Kyra climbs in bed and pretends to be sleeping when the door opens.
She carries in a tray of soup and a sandwich.
The crowd watches in riveted silence.
The father never takes his eyes off of the screen.
The image of the mother walks to a closet.
She pulls out a bottle of floor cleaner.
Reads the label for the ingredients.
Walks back to the food tray, where she unscrews the cap on the floor cleaner.
The mother pours some into the cap.
Kyra picks up the spoon and takes a sip.
Kyra slowly brings the spoon to her mouth and swallows another spoonful.
The ROOM IS UTTERLY SILENT.
Mrs. Collins is seated at the dining room surrounded by friends and family.
She fixes one of the many bouquets of flowers on the table.
It takes her a beat before she feels the stare.
She looks up.
Standing in the doorway to the dining room is Mr. Collins.
A group of ashen faced guests stand in the distance behind him.
Husband and wife's eyes meet.
Mr. Collins' eyes tremble with tears.
The four-year-old stares at the finger puppet, then quietly takes it in her small hands.
The two children don't say anything for a while.
Malcolm glances to the house, where all movements in and out of the home has ceased.
Malcolm looks across the two children on the swings.
Stanley Cunningham moves between two curtains and comes to a prop room door in the back.
After a second, he enters.
Mr. Cunningham finds Cole sitting in a poor villager costume as a FEMALE TEACHER kneels next to him and makes final adjustments.
Cole and the woman glance at Mr. Cunningham.
Mr. Cunningham looks around the room and then directly at Cole.
The Female Teacher looks to Cole and nods.
The group of villagers on the stage LAUGH AND MOCK THE.
Tommy Tammisimo is dressed in a mismatched costume -- he hops around, clearly embarrassed.
He smiles a true friend's smile.
Cole hesitates.
It takes him a moment before he steps forward.
Cole steps up to the stone.
He places his hand around the handle.
Begins to pull.
The sword starts to come out.
Cole raises the shiny sword out of the stone and high above his head.
Merlin and everyone on stage bows.
Malcolm watches his client, standing unafraid in the spot light for the first time.
The villagers rise and rush to Cole.
They scoop him up and carry him around the stage in celebration.
Cole chuckles and then starts laughing as the group of eight-year-olds try unsuccessfully to keep him up.
They slowly sag and then collapse.
All the students are laughing as they try to untangle themselves.
Malcolm watches with utter joy as Cole becomes indistinguishable among of a group of twenty children giggling and enjoying themselves on stage.
The rain comes down a little stronger now on the stained glass window.
Malcolm sits on the stairs in the lobby.
Cole walks back and forth in front of him.
Cole still holds the sword from the play.
Cole glances at Malcolm.
Malcolm exhales very slowly as he gets up.
Cole watches as Malcolm walks down the stairs to the entrance.
Lynn glances over to Cole who sits in his seat silently.
The way he says the words gives Lynn a chill.
Cole takes a long time.
Lynn gazes out the windshield at the line of red tail lights.
Lynn looks over slowly.
She eyes Cole.
Lynn becomes upset.
She nods with grave understanding.
Cole watches her.
Lynn's eyes moves to Cole.
Cole gazes at her intense expression.
Cole smiles a tiny smile.
Lynn glances down.
She drowns in her thoughts.
Lynn looks up sharply.
Lynn becomes still.
Her face is unreadable.
Lynn's eyes lock on Cole's.
Lynn brings her hands to her mouth.
Lynn begins to cry.
Lynn covers her face with her hands.
The tears roll out through her fingers.
Lynn looks at her son.
She barely gets the words out.
Cole moves closer to Lynn.
She cradles him in her arms.
Mother and son hold each other tight.
Malcolm walks quietly down the sidewalk towards his home.
Malcolm enters the living room and smiles at what he sees.
Anna is asleep in a chair.
She's curled up in a ball.
Their WEDDING VIDEO PLAYS SOFTLY ON THE TELEVISION.
Malcolm watches himself and Anna cutting their wedding cake.
Malcolm turns from the television and takes a seat next to Anna.
He gazes upon his wife softly.
Malcolm's eyes move back up.
He looks at his sleeping wife.
Her lips move again.
Eyes never open.
She becomes silent.
Anna falls back into deep sleep, her arm slides down.
SOMETHING SHINY FALLS OUT AND ROLLS ON.
Malcolm's eyes watch as it comes to a stop.
He gazes curiously at a GOLD WEDDING BAND laying on the wood floor.
Confusion washes over his face.
He looks to Anna's hand.
An identical gold wedding ring sits on her finger.
Malcolm looks down at his own hand.
HIS WEDDING RING.
Malcolm is completely lost.
He takes a couple steps back.
Looks around in confusion.
His eyes come to rest on the door to his basement office.
He looks in disbelief at the set of DEAD BOLT LOCKS on the door.
His eyes are drawn to the dining table.
Only ONE PLACE SETTING is out on the tabletop.
His eyes search again -- they finally lock on the WEDDING VIDEO PLAYING.
Malcolm watches images of himself on the screen.
His eyes fill with a storm of emotions.
Malcolm looks to Anna's face and becomes very still.
Thelma has the phone tucked under her chin, as she cuts out coupons from the newspaper and pins them on a bulletin board already covered with them.
Thelma goes through the living room to the bottom of the stairs and leans on the banister.
DARRYL comes trotting down the stairs.
Darryl is checking himself out in the hall mirror, and it's obvious he likes what he sees.
He exudes over-confidence for reasons that never become apparent.
He likes to think of himself as a real lady killer.
He is making imperceptible adjustments to his over-moussed hair.
Thelma watches approvingly.
He's finally ready.
He walks to the door and gives Thelma the most perfunctory kiss on the cheek.
Louise comes over and takes the phone out of his hand.
They both hang up.
Louise pulls out in a green 'T-Bird in mint condition.
Going into the suitcase is bathing suits, wool socks, flannel pajamas, jeans, sweaters, T-shirts, a couple of dresses, way too much stuff for a two-day trip.
REVEAL Thelma, standing in front of a closet, trying to decide what else to bring, as if she's forgotten something.
The room looks like it was decorated entirely from a Sears catalog.
It's really frilly.
A perfectly ordered suitcase, everything neatly folded and orderly.
Three pairs of underwear, one pair of long underwear, two pairs of pants, two sweaters, one furry robe, one nightgown.
She could be packing for camp.
REVEAL Louise.
Her room is as orderly as the suitcase.
Everything matches.
She is debating whether to take an extra pair of socks.
She decides not to and closes the suitcase.
She goes to the phone, picks it up and dials.
They load everything into the car.
The trunk barely closes.
They get into the car and pull out of the driveway.
As they drive down the street, we hear Thelma let out a long howl.
She is laughing and she sticks her arms straight up in the air.
They are driving down the interstate.
Thelma reaches for her purse and finds the gun.
Louise shrieks at the sight of it.
Thelma wonders if Louise is really that naive.
Louise reaches over and takes the gun out of Thelma's purse and holds it in her hand.
She tests the weight of it, and then puts it under the seat.
Thelma puts the bullets under the seat.
They are speeding off down the highway with the RADIO blaring.
Louise puts in a TAPE of wild R&B MUSIC.
They are both silent for a minute.
After a pause.
Louise realizes that Thelma is going to revert to a teenager and continue whining unless she gives in.
They pull off at a place down on the right all lit up with neon.
It's called the SILVER BULLET.
The sign flashes COCKTAILS -- BEER -- DANCING -- FOOD.
There is a huge gravel parking lot with lots of pickup trucks and older cars.
Even though it's early, you can tell this place is a real night spot.
It's already pretty crowded.
This place is jumpin'.
There are ten pool tables with crowds all around.
The long bar is filled with customers.
There are tables and booths.
The room is dense with smoke.
There is a dance floor, but no one is dancing yet because the band is still setting up.
There are a lot of single men.
Many heads turn and follow Thelma and Louise to an empty table.
A WAITRESS comes over and drops two menus on the table.
As the Waitress leaves.
As the Waitress returns.
The Waitress returns with Louise's drink.
Louise understands.
Harlan laughs.
Thelma laughs, too, but doesn't really get the joke.
Harlan leaves.
Thelma knocks back her shot of Wild Turkey and holds up her glass to the Waitress to bring her another one.
They both drift off momentarily, contemplating their domestic problems, until the Waitress comes over.
Thelma looks over at the bar where Harlan is grinning at her, making dancing motions.
She smiles and waves at him.
Her face becomes serious again as she turns back to Louise.
Thelma's mind goes too fast for her mouth, and the speed at which she speaks can be staggering.
Louise is used to it.
Louise smiles wistfully at Thelma's assessment of the situation.
She again drinks her whole shot of Wild Turkey and holds up her glass, as the BAND strikes up a lively tune.
Louise drinks her shot of tequila and holds up her glass, too.
Thelma is dancing with Harlan and has been for quite a while.
Louise has been dancing with a quiet guy named DAN.
Thelma is breathless, drunk and giggly.
She holds a beer bottle in one hand.
She is laughing a lot about nothing, and Harlan is studying her closely.
Louise notices this.
Louise heads off to the bathroom.
She stumbles a step and drops her beer bottle.
Louise is heading towards the bathroom, where there is a line of at least fifteen women in front of her.
He steers her towards the door.
Harlan is hauling Thelma out the door into the parking lot.
She is pretty limp.
Harlan is leaning close to Thelma's head, and she pulls her head away.
He pulls her to him and tries to put his arms around her.
Thelma pulls away.
Louise comes out of the bathroom as the next woman goes in.
She scans the room looking for Thelma.
She goes over to the table and sees Thelma's stuff there.
She picks up the check and looks at it.
Harlan has led Thelma off to the far end of the parking lot.
He is trying to kiss her now.
He is pushing her arms down and turning her head away.
Harlan is pushing himself on her now, and she is beginning to push him away harder.
Harlan has now pinned Thelma against the back of a car and is kissing her neck.
He has her ass in his hands.
He is beginning to hump her.
She is pushing him away as hard as she can, but he is relentless.
He looks mean and dangerous.
He lets go of her face and pins her arms behind her.
He holds both of her arms with one hand.
With his free hand, he reaches down and starts to pull her dress up.
Thelma is still struggling and there are tears running down her face.
TIGHT SHOT of the barrel of Thelma's gun being pressed into the nape of Harlan's neck.
Louise's thumb pulls back the hammer.
Harlan slowly raises his hands in the air, and Thelma darts out, pulling her dress down.
Louise starts to back away, but the gun is still close to his face.
His pants are undone in the front.
She is still backing away with the gun raised.
Thelma is inching away as well.
Louise lowers the gun and stares at him for a second.
Then she turns and walks away.
Thelma does, too.
Louise stops in her tracks.
Louise takes two long strides back towards him, raises the gun and FIRES a bullet into his face.
The car behind him is splattered with blood.
Thelma and Louise are both silent.
Louise lowers the gun.
Thelma runs to get the car.
Thelma comes careening up in reverse.
Louise hops in and Thelma PEELS OUT, spraying gravel.
As they speed out of the parking lot back to the road, we hear MUSIC blaring from the nightclub.
They hit the main road with tires SQUEALING.
Thelma starts to cry quietly.
Thelma pulls off to the side of the road.
Louise gets out and starts to walk around the car.
She stops when she gets to the back of the car, and she is sick.
Thelma waits in the car and moves over to the passenger side.
Louise gets in the driver's side.
Thelma's head moves almost imperceptibly.
Louise studies Thelma's face.
Louise looks at Thelma for a long time.
Police cars are parked around.
The activity has died down.
In the back of a police car sits the Waitress with the door open.
A DETECTIVE in a suit leans over the car door with his note pad.
Louise did not realize she was doing it.
Louise slams the closet door.
Thelma jumps.
They are silent for a moment.
Thelma is staring down the road.
She puts her finger down on the receiver.
Louise is hanging up the phone.
She walks away towards the front of the store.
Thelma comes out of the front of the store.
Thelma and Louise look at each other while this sinks in.
walks around to the side of the building to the phone.
Louise goes into the store for a chocolate Yoohoo.
Darryl is mad, but he's still watching the game.
Thelma is trying not to cry.
She's trying to be strong.
Neither one of them say anything for a moment.
She hangs up on him.
Thelma has tears running down her face and she is watching the ground as she storms back to the car.
So she makes a loud grunt as she slams into someone that she did not see.
Both people are knocked back a few steps from the force of the collision.
She notices how blue his eyes are.
Now she wants him to come.
He starts to walk away from the car.
Just then Louise comes out of the store.
She sees Thelma talking to this guy and, for one moment, stops dead in her tracks as she takes this in, then continues toward the car.
Although her face is basically expressionless, we see that it's possible she might kill Thelma.
The Hitchhiker just nods and starts walking towards the road.
The guy does seem really nice and Thelma is really frustrated that Louise wouldn't give him a ride, but decides not to confront her.
Louise lowers the top and backs the car out.
They watch him walk away.
Louise pulls out of the parking lot onto the road.
They pass the Hitchhiker.
He smiles and waves.
They drive down the road.
TIGHT SHOT of the Hitchhiker as the smile fades from his face.
Thelma looking sulky.
Hal goes over a list of every registered green T-Bird in the state.
Names are scrolling by as Hal stares blankly at the screen.
We see the name LOUISE ELIZABETH SAWYER scroll past.
They are clear of the town.
Thelma is like a dog with a bone.
She just won't let it drop.
Louise looks very shaken up.
She keeps her eyes on the road but she's holding the steering wheel so tightly, her knuckles are white.
Suddenly she reaches over and locks her door.
EXTREME CLOSEUP of Darryl's face.
J.D. is looking down the road, way off in the distance.
Louise looks down the road and sees a highway patrol car coming down the road towards them.
She glides along as the cop car passes on the other side without seeing them.
Louise glides right back onto the road as if nothing unusual has happened at all.
They realize they have not been spotted.
J.D. and Louise look at each other.
Hal is on the phone to the FBI man.
Darryl is sitting on a chair looking dazed.
Other law enforcement types roam around the house.
MAX STRATTON, an FBI MAN in his early forties, is looking at the ident-a-kit drawings of Louise and Thelma.
The T-Bird barrels down the road at high speed.
Louise, Thelma, and J.D. pull into the motel parking lot.
Louise looks at J.D. in the back seat and takes the keys out of the ignition.
Louise gets out of the car and goes inside.
An older WOMAN behind the counter is looking at a computer screen.
Louise is startled and turns around quickly.
J.D. is climbing out of the car, looking very uncomfortable.
Jimmy is smiling.
Thelma is watching.
Louise turns to face Thelma.
J.D. attacks her again.
Thelma gasps.
Louise is studying Thelma closely as Thelma squirms in her seat, barely able to contain herself.
Thelma is just laughing hysterically.
Louise suddenly understands.
Louise is getting a bad feeling.
She is already standing up putting money on the table.
Thelma has forgotten all about the money.
They are both leaving the restaurant now.
As they hit the door they both break into a full run.
She is stoic, fighting tears.
Louise sits down on the sidewalk in front of the room.
Thelma comes and sits beside her.
Neither one says anything for a moment.
Louise quietly starts to fall apart.
This causes Thelma to leap into action.
Louise is still sitting on the sidewalk.
Louise slowly gets to her feet.
TIGHT SHOT of rear wheel of green T-Bird LAYING RUBBER out of the motel parking lot.
Thelma and Louise, both looking a little rougher than we've seen so far, drive away.
Hal, FBI Man, various other police and detective types, pull up in front of the house.
The front door swings open and there stands Darryl looking like he's been shot out of a cannon.
Louise and Thelma pull into a convenience store.
Police are tapping the phones, dusting for prints, etc., while Darryl sits motionless in his recliner with a dull expression on his face.
Max comes up and joins them as they walk down the hallway.
Thelma and Louise are sitting in the car.
Louise looks at her.
Thelma shrieks with excitement.
Louise is completely stunned.
Louise shoots her a look.
She puts the car in gear and FLOORS it out of the parking lot.
She is still looking at Thelma as if she has completely lost her mind.
Hal, Max, various other cops, and Darryl all watch as TV plays back VCR TAPE of Thelma in the convenience store pulling a gun.
In perfect lip sync is.
TIGHT SHOT of Darryl's face going deeper and deeper into a state of shock.
TIGHT SHOTS of Hal, Max, etc., all looking intently at the screen.
VIDEO IMAGE of Thelma boldly ordering cashier to fill her purse with money.
As he's loading the purse with bills, she's taking beef jerky from the display and putting it in there, too, while she points the gun at the cashier.
Thelma and Louise in car, driving.
Louise looks at the speedometer touching mph and lets her foot off the gas.
Louise is looking a little nervous.
Thelma howls like a dog and drinks a little bottle of Wild Turkey.
As they get next to the truck, the truck driver is smiling and waving at them.
They smile and wave back.
He flicks his tongue at them.
Louise screams.
They both pause for a moment.
As the sun sets, the T-Bird drives deeper into the vast desert.
Darryl is sitting in the hallway.
Two officers are leading J.D. down the hall.
Hal, Max, other plainclothes officers follow.
Hal thinks for a moment and then looks to Max.
Max agrees and opens the door for the others to leave.
He and Hal make eye contact before Max closes the door.
Hal sits down across the table from J.D. and looks at him.
They both just sit there for a moment.
J.D. shifts in his chair.
Hal walks over and opens the door and Max and the others straggle back in.
The TV is ON and the place is a mess.
Darryl, Hal, Max, and other cops spring into action as the phone RINGS, putting on headsets, turning on tape recorders.
Darryl picks up the phone.
Hal, Max, etc., all are gesticulating wildly.
Thelma hangs up the phone.
Everyone is very disappointed, taking off their headsets, turning off tape recorders and looking at Darryl like he's an idiot.
Darryl still holds the phone in his hand.
Thelma and Louise are staring at each other intently.
Louise steps up to the phone.
Again everybody springs into action.
Darryl is fumbling with the phone.
Darryl gives Hal and Max a look as if he's got it completely under control.
Louise hangs up the phone.
All are busy trying to see if the call was traced.
Darryl is back in his recliner still in shock.
She is stomping back to the car.
Thelma follows doggedly.
A moving van pulls in and parks in the b.g.
Louise stops as she is about to get in and faces Thelma who's standing on the other side of the car.
Louise yanks open her car door, gets in and slams the door and fires up the ENGINE.
Thelma hops in quickly.
Louise careens back onto the road.
Louise slams on the brakes.
Louise stops yelling for a moment groping for self-control.
Thelma looks pitiful.
The T-Bird flashes by on a road that looks a lot like Route.
Louise passes him and, as she does, he HONKS.
They look up and he is wildly pointing to his lap.
Thelma is laughing wildly.
Thelma has just crossed the line from laughing to crying.
They both get quiet.
Thelma leans back just watching Louise.
She studies her as if she's never really seen her before.
All of a sudden a look of shocked realization comes over Thelma's face.
She jerks upright and startles Louise.
Louise knows what she is talking about.
She becomes immediately agitated.
Louise looks as if she is looking for a way to flee.
Louise's eyes are wild, not seeing, while Thelma now seems completely serene.
The car is SCREAMING down the road.
They drive through a little stand of buildings.
A car speeds up to try and catch them.
The red and blue lights pop on.
It is a New Mexico State Patrol car.
Louise sees the lights in the rearview mirror.
Thelma jumps awake.
They are trying not to panic.
The patrol car is right behind them.
Louise pulls the car off the road.
The patrol car pulls up right behind them.
The lights shine brightly in through the windows.
Louise does.
The PATROLMAN gets out of his car and approaches their car.
He comes to the driver's side window.
PATROLMAN'S POV OF LOUISE smiling up at him.
She does.
Louise fumbles in her purse for her wallet, opens it and shows her license.
They walk to the back of the car.
He notes the license plate number.
Patrolman gets in the driver's side.
He picks up a clipboard and clips Louise's driver's license to it.
He picks up the hand mike for the radio and, as he does, a hand with a gun comes in his car window.
It's Thelma and she puts the gun to his head.
He drops it.
Louise reaches over and takes his gun.
Louise SHOOTS the car radio.
The cop flinches with each shot.
Louise fires TWO SHOTS into the police radio.
It BLASTS all to hell.
Louise reaches over and takes the keys.
She takes her license off the clipboard.
She gets out and trots around to the back of the car.
Thelma is holding the gun on the Patrolman.
Suddenly Thelma FIRES the gun, blowing two holes into the trunk cover.
Louise opens the trunk.
As he's climbing into the trunk, Thelma explains to Louise.
They are in really beautiful country now.
A cop walks into the kitchen and hands Hal a file that says Louise Elizabeth Sawyer on the outside.
They are both quiet for a second.
Louise goes a little faster.
Hal smiles.
The surveillance man motions to Hal to keep it going.
Louise's eyes get wide as she hears this.
A FINGER reaches up and presses down the lever and hangs up the phone.
She has her finger on the lever.
Louise is still standing there holding the phone.
Thelma stops and looks at her.
Max, still holding the phone, is surprised by this outburst.
Louise is surprised to be hearing this from Thelma.
They are both quiet for a moment.
Louise STARTS the car.
They lurch into reverse then SCREECH forward as they tear off down the road.
as they fly down the road.
Louise and Thelma both get quiet for a second.
They are both laughing.
The car is still flying down the road.
The sun is coming higher in the sky now.
They come to an intersection in the middle of nowhere.
They turn off onto a dirt road and pull to a stop.
The Trucker reaches over and opens a glove compartment crammed full of condoms.
He grabs a few and shoves them in his pocket.
He turns off his engine and gets out of the truck.
He walks up to the car.
Louise and Thelma get out of the car.
Louise nods.
This is not what is supposed to be happening.
He is getting a little panicky.
Louise pulls the gun they stole from the State Patrolman.
He looks at the gun.
Louise looks at his truck off in the distance.
She points the gun at it, takes a second to get a bead, then SHOOTS two of the tires flat.
The truck slowly sinks as the air escapes from the tires.
Louise and Thelma look at each other.
They both turn towards the truck and FIRE rounds into the tankers until they EXPLODE in a huge ball of fire.
The truck driver screams at the top of his lungs.
Louise starts the car and starts driving in circles around the truck driver.
Thelma and Louise are both howling at the top of their lungs.
A steady stream of state police cars pulls out of the parking lot with lights flashing while other policemen are running to their cars still parked in the lot.
It does look like an Army.
More police cars have joined, and from every direction, police cars are swarming across the desert, although none are in front of them.
Thelma is looking way up ahead in the distance.
Behind them is a huge wall of dust created by all the police cars following them.
In front of them, looking larger every moment, is the awesome splendor of the Grand Canyon.
Louise has tears streaming down her face as she realizes there is absolutely no escape.
She continues barreling towards it without slowing down.
All the police cars are still following about a half a mile behind.
The car is bouncing and flying across the desert.
Finally, they get about twenty yards from the edge and Louise SLAMS on the brakes.
Thelma and Louise are just waiting for the cars to catch up.
The police cars stop in a line about two hundred yards behind them.
The dust from the cars is blowing across them.
They just sit looking at the Grand Canyon.
From the canyon, the FBI helicopter rises up in front of the car.
Hal sees Thelma and Louise for the first time.
They are sitting in the car, oblivious in a way, to all the activity around them.
He only takes his eyes off of them long enough to look at Max.
Thelma starts to laugh.
The helicopter lands behind the row of police cars.
He sees Thelma and Louise facing each other.
They look so nice.
He can't stop looking.
He sees Thelma and Louise in the car.
Some of the police sharpshooters are sporting semi-automatic rifles.
We're at a Comic Book show, specifically at a book- signing.
Holden sits at a table.
Beside it is a large mock-up of the comic book cover which features two stoner super-heroes who bear a striking resemblance to a pair of very familiar friendly neighborhood drug dealers, Holden hands the book back to the Fan.
He offers him a patronizingly kind, half- smile in return.
Across from the barely-managing- to- stand Fan.
BANKY signs the book of another COLLECTOR.
Banky freezes up.
He composes himself and continues signing.
A LITTLE KID steps up but the Collector lingers.
Holden accepts a comic from another Fan.
He looks to his left and freaks.
Banky is throttling the Collector from across the table.
The Collector attempts to fight him off.
SECURITY GUARDS pull them apart.
The Security Guards drag the collector away.
Holden grabs Banky.
HOOPER fills the frame.
He comes off like a typical, pro- black/anti-white homeboy.
During the speech, Holden and Banky enter and sit up front.
Hooper whips his head around, looking for the source of the comment.
Hooper explodes, He pulls a nine millimeter from his belt, draws on Banky and fires.
Banky goes down, falling forward into the crowd.
The crowd screams and starts to scatter, Hooper jumps over the table and raises his fists in the air.
The crowd-is gone.
Holden sits in his chair, laughing.
Hooper steps off the stage and picks Banky's head up off the floor.
Hooper sounds different Actually, he sounds gay.
Banky smiles.
They turn to see.
A beautiful, blonde, ruffled-haired angel swinging her purse in a circle.
Her name is ALYSSA.
Holden hits him.
Banky seethes.
Banky offers Holden a puzzled glance.
Then he nods to Hooper.
Holden, Banky, Alyssa and Hooper sit around a table drinking, talking, and smoking.
Banky and Hooper exit, leaving Alyssa and Holden alone at the table.
Alyssa laughs.
Holden smiles.
A dart hits the board then, one hits the wall beside the board.
Alyssa winds up with another dart.
Holden watches.
Through the window, we see a COUPLE making out on the hood of a car.
Alyssa exits to the night.
Holden stares after her.
Two beats later, Hooper and Banky enter, holding an `Everything's Archie' comic between them.
Banky runs out.
Holden shrugs at Hooper.
Holden answers it, while still drawing.
Hooper's tending bar.
It's a club - people are mingling, a band is playing, it's loud.
The Guy sips it.
Holden enters.
ON THE DANCE FLOOR - in the middle of a thrall of people - dances Alyssa.
She moves like a cat and she's looking very sexy.
Hooper, Holden, and Banky stare OC.
Holden smacks Banky and moves to exit.
Banky looks around.
People clap.
Holden looks at her.
The SINGER on stage speaks into the microphone.
The crowd applauds.
Alyssa shakes her head, smiling.
Holden pokes her.
Alyssa shakes her head no.
The crowd urges her.
Alyssa offers the Singer an embarrassed half-smile.
Holden pushes her forward.
Alyssa shakes her head and relents, heading through the crowd.
The crowd thunders.
Banky and Hooper stand at the bar.
The crowd cheers.
Alyssa laughs.
She turns to the band and says something which they nod.
She turns back to the crowd.
Holden smiles.
Alyssa launches into a torchy tune.
Banky joins him.
Holden glances at him.
Banky offers a mocking mimic of his smile.
Holden is smiling, being seduced, Banky rolls his eyes.
Beside Holden, stands a pretty GIRL with a short haircut, who's also riveted by Alyssa's performance.
Alyssa makes big-time eye contact with somebody out there.
The song seems to be aimed at whoever she's looking at.
At the end of the song, the crowd goes wild but Alyssa's preoccupied.
She points to someone in the crowd, and curls her finger back in a `c'mere' fashion, urging whoever it is to join her.
She jumps off the stage.
Holden shakes his head sheepishly and looks downward, aw- shucks style.
At that moment, the girl beside him leaps forward.
Alyssa and the girl race into each other's arms and fall into a way-to-passionate-to-mean-anything-else kiss.
Holden looks up and is suddenly taken aback.
Banky's eyes widen.
Banky allows a smile to creep across his face.
The crowd applauds.
Holden's eyes bug.
Banky looks around, and for the first time, we get the distinct impression that this is a lesbian bar.
There are a lot of chicks in this place.
Holden continues to stare - mouth agape.
Banky looks at Holden and slaps him on the back.
Alyssa and the girl continue to kiss.
Banky, Holden, Alyssa and the girl from the dance floor sit around a table.
Alyssa and the girl continue to make out.
Holden and Banky casually watch, wide-eyed.
Banky stares a little harder.
Holden hits him.
Alyssa and the girl break their kiss.
Kim exits.
Alyssa looks at him.
Banky is smiling ear-to-ear.
Banky and Alyssa laugh.
Holden looks at a small scar on his arm and thinks better about mentioning it.
Then Kim re-enters and plants a big kiss on Alyssa's neck.
Alyssa waves at him as he exits.
Banky slides out of the booth.
Holden reaches in and pulls Banky out.
Alyssa watches them go, then turns and kisses Kim.
Holden looks preoccupied.
The Receptionist stops typing and looks at Banky, shocked.
Banky flips through magazines, biting off mini pieces of the gum he's chewing.
JOHN SLOSS, the boy's lawyer, joins them.
Banky leans back into the couch, wearing a thoughtful face.
The Execs and Sloss laugh.
Holden and Banky politely join in.
Banky shoots Holden a `these guys are idiots' look.
Holden smiles.
Alyssa and Holden walk through the park, eating hot dogs.
They come to a swing set and sit down on the swings.
Alyssa holds up her hand.
Alyssa swallows what she's chewing and releases her tongue, which is just huge.
Holden is transfixed.
Alyssa wraps it back up and smiles, standing.
She exits.
Holden remains in the swing.
Alyssa comes back in.
Banky tries to balance way-too-much luggage.
Holden checks his beeper.
Holden exits.
Banky starts packing his mags up.
A little KID enters, staring at him.
And he's gone.
Banky stands there, open-mouthed.
They head toward the skee-ball runs.
Holden rolls the ball.
It pops into a twenty point circle.
Alyssa picks up a ball, squints to aim, and whips it overhand.
It pops off one of the circles and shoots back at them, missing them as they duck.
Holden reacts as Alyssa laughs.
Holden ducks as the ball comes sailing back at his head.
He gets up.
Holden whips the ball in surprise.
It ricochets off the ceiling and through the glass of an old pinball machine.
Holden looks around, nervously.
Alyssa laughs.
Banky sits there, shocked.
He puts the controller down and crosses to the drawing table.
Holden starts drawing.
Banky stares at him.
He starts drawing something.
Banky draws a four-way stop.
Banky finishes drawing.
He illustrates according to his voice-over.
Holden's shaking his head.
Holden storms away.
Banky follows.
Holden looks at Banky for a long beat.
Banky stares at him.
Suddenly, he softens a bit.
He drops his head.
Banky looks into Holden's eyes.
Holden stares back.
Banky walks away.
Holden watches him go and exits.
Alyssa picks through her food.
Holden and Alyssa sit at a booth.
She grabs her bag and slides out of the booth.
Holden watches her, then follows.
Alyssa slides up to the cashier's desk as does Holden, who offers a puzzled shrug.
Alyssa offers the 'just wait' finger.
The CASHIER turns to her.
Holden stares at her.
Holden stares ahead.
Then he swerves the wheel to the right.
The car pulls to the side of the road.
Holden throws the car into park.
The rain is a bit heavier now.
Holden stares at Alyssa.
She stares back.
Then she gets out of the car.
Holden gets out of the car.
It's raining pretty hard now.
Alyssa's hitching up the road.
Holden reaches her.
She looks at him, rain drenching the pair.
She shakes her head ruefully.
She walks away.
Holden stands there, at a loss.
Then he turns and heads back to his car.
As he reaches the door and turns to look back at her, Alyssa pounces on him, grabs his face and locks lips with him, big time.
He drops his keys and embraces her.
And there they stand, by the side of the road, drenched kissing.
Banky carries a bag in one arm and pulls out his keys with the other.
He picks up the mail on the floor.
He jams them into the lock, opening the door.
He closes the door behind him and shuffles to the kitchenette, passing by the blanket-covered, slumbering forms of Holden and Alyssa, who are out cold in each other's arms.
The place looks a mess - Like a couple of people were engaged in some tremendous fucking.
Then he freezes.
He looks down again, and drops his jaw and his carton of choco.
It hits the floor with a pop.
They look at one another, then at the flabbergasted Banky.
Holden and Alyssa shoot straight up, eyes struggling to focus.
Banky blinks.
Then he shuffles toward the door again and lets himself out.
Banky sits on a curb, staring into the distance, Holden saunters up and sits beside him.
He follows Banky's gaze.
Banky shoots him a glare.
Banky walks away.
Holden shakes his head.
An all-girl gathering.
TORY, NICA, DALIA and JANE help Alyssa finish an issue of 'Idiosyncratic Routine'.
Tory letters a page.
Nica and Dalia lay-out the artwork.
Dalia drinks wine.
Alyssa buries her face, giggling.
They all cackle.
Alyssa tries to laugh with them.
Dalia stares at Alyssa, suspiciously.
All four Girls stare at Alyssa, a bit horrified.
Holden and Alyssa lie in each other's arms, moonlight bathing them.
She smokes.
Holden looks down at that book.
He shakes his head at Banky and flips it open.
On the page is Alyssa's Senior year photo.
CUT TO COHEE LUNDON.
In the PARKING LOT of FOOD CITY, addressing the camera.
BACK IN THE OFFICE - Holden stares at Banky.
Holden grabs Banky and pins him against the wall.
He releases Banky.
Banky brushes himself off.
Holden and Hooper peruse laser discs.
A young BLACK KID approaches Hooper, holding a comic book.
The Kid leaves, Hooper slips back into his real voice.
ON THE ICE - The Players skid into the corner.
The crowd around Alyssa and Holden go wild.
Player One checks Player Two into the boards, hard.
Alyssa's into the game.
Player Two scrambles to his feet and throws down his gloves.
Player Two pulls Player One's helmet off and punches him in the face.
ON THE ICE - Player Two yanks at Player One's jersey and gut punches him.
Holden's face is really sour looking.
ON THE ICE - Player One staggers a bit, then quickly rights his jersey and lunges at Player Two, landing a barrage of his own punches.
ON THE ICE - Player One delivers the kill shot, slamming his fist into Player Two's nose.
The blood shoots out like a geyser, and Two goes down hard.
Holden stares at Alyssa, flabbergasted.
The crowd around them stares not at the fight on the ice, but the fight in their midst, shocked.
Alyssa fumes.
She storms away.
Holden chases after her.
The Bystander watches them go.
Alyssa marches quickly, pulling on her coat.
Holden catches up to her.
He pulls back.
She stares at him, hurt and pissed.
Holden's eyes are downcast.
Alyssa waits for a response.
Holden skulks off.
Alyssa stares after him, and then starts kicking and punching a car beside her, finally slumping to the ground.
She cries.
Holden sits on the couch, alone in the dark.
Banky enters.
Then he sits beside Holden.
He opens his arms.
Holden sits alone at a booth.
Holden looks up.
JAY and SILENT BOB stand above him.
The pair slide into the booth.
Holden pulls an envelope out of his jacket and tosses it to Jay.
Silent Bob thumbs through the comic.
Jay looks over his shoulder, as he begins rolling a joint.
A WAITRESS joins them.
Holden rubs his eyes.
The Waitress returns with the order.
The Waitress stares wide-eyed and offended at Jay.
There's silence.
Holden's head snaps forward.
He stares, wide-eyed at Silent Bob.
Holden stares, shocked.
Jay and Holden look at him.
Silent Bob busts a move with his hands.
Silent Bob backhands him.
Jay raises his fist as if to strike.
Silent Bob lights a cigarette.
Exit Jay and Silent Bob.
Holden remains in the booth, thinking.
6) Holden sits in the park that he and Alyssa walked through.
He's staring at Alyssa's yearbook picture.
Then, an idea hits him.
He jumps up and dashes out of the park.
He grabs a chair from the side of the room.
Banky and Alyssa sit on the couch.
Holden paces in front of them.
Alyssa's face drops.
She subtly shakes her head.
The room is silent.
Alyssa Lights a cigarette.
Alyssa's head drops.
He leans back into the couch and lets out a huge sigh.
Banky stares forward, wide-eyed.
Then shrugs.
Holden smiles at his friend.
Then he looks at Alyssa.
Holden moves to her side of the couch.
Alyssa looks at him, sadly.
Shocked Banky lets out a sigh of relief.
Holden reacts.
A tear rolls down her cheek.
She looks at him, sadly, and touches his face.
She releases him, then slaps him.
Alyssa storms away, stopping briefly to look Banky up and down.
She walks out of the studio.
The door closes behind her.
Banky and Holden stand there, silently.
A copy of 'Bluntman and Chronic' enters the frame.
Banky sits at his own signing table.
He talks with a FAN.
Banky locks eyes with someone OC.
His expression softens.
Holden leans against a wall on the far side of the room.
He smiles at Banky.
Banky smiles back, and sort of nods.
Holden holds up a copy of Banky's new solo comic.
He points to it and gives a thumbs up.
Banky smiles to OC.
Banky looks in another direction, OC.
He looks at Holden and points to it.
Holden looks in the same direction, and then looks back at Banky and nods.
Banky looks at Holden.
Then he brings his pointer fingers together, mimicing Holden's 'shared moment' gesture.
Holden shrugs slightly, then crosses his fingers - as if to say 'hopefully'.
Banky sort of smiles at the OC Holden.
Then he offers his own thumbs up - as to say 'good luck'.
Holden smiles back, nods 'bye', and walks off.
The Fan Leaves, but Banky is watching Holden go.
Alyssa sits at a separate signing table, with a line in front of her.
A WOMAN behind her.
Alyssa dashes off signatures in the copies of her comic.
Alyssa looks up sharply.
Holden stands before her, smiling.
Alyssa leafs through it.
Her eyes get somewhat misty.
They look at each other.
He walks away.
The Woman returns.
She follows Alyssa's gaze.
She watches him go.
A few steps away, he turns.
And then he starts moving through the thrall of fan-boys.
And as they fall into conversation, the show goes on.
Lee glances over her shoulder, then turns from the doorway and walks away.
The camera follows her, moving across a book-and-photograph-filled bookshelf that obscures her from view as she walks into a crowded, comfortable vestibule.
People, some holding drinks, some just entering the apartment, surround her.
Everyone is talking at once, carrying on easy, familiar conversation.
Lee smiles at the various people, exchanging greetings.
Lee walks into the living room, turning her head back for a moment to talk to the child she has just hugged.
The camera is still moving with Lee as she smiles and stops to chat with her mother.
Lee starts to walk off again, finishing her conversation with her mother.
She passes several other guests, then turns to greet April, giving her a warm, brief hug.
Elliot's voice-over continues as he is actually seen, standing in a doorway having a conversation with a gesturing, rotund man.
Both are holding drinks as Lee, carrying a tray of hors d'oeuvres and two drinks, walks between them.
The space is very tight; the men hold up their drinks to make room for her.
Elliot watches Lee walk off; the other man, oblivious, continues to talk.
Elliot reluctantly returns to the conversation, but he can't help turning his head to gaze at the offscreen Lee as the other man chatters on.
The camera resumes following a smiling Lee.
She has just put down the tray and drinks near April, and briskly and obliviously, she walks past a doorway where Elliot, still ruminating, watches her, entranced.
The camera stays with Elliot, who is still watching the offscreen Lee.
In the background, guests continue to chatter warmly with each other.
Hannah, carrying a tray of hors d'oeuvres, walks up behind the distracted Elliot.
Elliot, taking one of the hors d'oeuvres, starts nibbling as well as he and Hannah walk past the bookshelf into the living room.
Elliot and Hannah, eating and talking, walk past a hallway and offscreen as Holly appears, walking down the hallway.
She holds a drink and a plate of hors d'oeuvres; she stands at the entrance to the hallway, eating and looking at the offscreen guests.
Holly, standing in the hallway onscreen, swallows loudly.
Holly takes a sip of her drink as Hannah and Elliot walk over to her.
Holly and Hannah begin to laugh.
Hannah, licking her fingers, walks past a memo-cluttered refrigerator to the stove as Holly, behind her, begins to speak.
As Holly talks, sipping her drink, Hannah busily works in the kitchen, which contains a large center table stacked with bowls and plates of food, hanging pots and pans, and general party clutter.
She walks on-and-offscreen as she talks and listens to her sister.
Hannah, who'd been mashing some food in a bowl on a nearby counter, hesitates momentarily.
She turns to Holly.
Hannah, licking her fingers, walks past Holly.
Hannah walks past Holly to attend to some food on a different stove.
Holly turns to face her.
Only Holly is seen as she talks to the offscreen Hannah, the camera moving in closer on her face.
As Holly speaks, she distractedly nibbles an hors d'oeuvre.
Holly pops another hors d'oeuvre into her mouth as the background singing gets louder and the film cuts to.
A child is sprawled out under a blanket on a sofa; some guests chatter quietly; others drink and eat, listening.
As they continue to sing, the film cuts back to the kitchen, where Lee, carrying some glasses, enters through the doorway.
Lee walks over to her sisters, putting the glasses down on a counter.
Hannah is scooping seeds out of a cantaloupe.
Holly, leaning on the table, sips her drink.
The music from the living room is softly heard as the three sisters chat comfortably and easily with each other.
Hannah shakes her head in disapproval while Holly angrily takes another sip of her drink.
And the film cuts briefly back to the living room, where Evan is still playing the piano and singing.
The camera moves past him and a few guests to Norma, who is enthusiastically singing along, looking at Evan and moving her hands.
The table is beautifully set for Thanksgiving dinner, complete with candles, flowers, cut crystal, china, and silver.
Hannah's children are playing in the room as Hannah enters, carrying a huge roast turkey.
Behind her is Holly, carrying a casserole.
The film cuts to April, standing in the doorway of the dining room and holding a drink.
Holly groans, looking at her sister, while April sips her drink and nods.
Hannah screams with laughter as she walks toward the end of the table, past a gleeful Holly, who points her finger at Hannah as she passes.
Hannah, still laughing, playfully pushes the accusing finger away.
She walks over to a nearby china cabinet.
As Holly continues to tease her sister, Hannah opens a drawer in the cabinet.
She takes out two apples decorated with paper turkey heads and tails and hands them to April.
While Holly is talking, Hannah hands her the last turkey apple, accidentally sticking her with one of the toothpicks that keeps the decorations in place.
He walks out of the bathroom, moving down the hallway towards the camera.
Elliot walks into the bedroom as Lee continues to talk offscreen.
The camera, leaving Elliot, moves across the room, past a wall of framed paintings, a headboard and bed, a night table and lamp, revealing Lee.
She is flipping through a book by a curtained window.
Lee puts the book she's been holding down on the desk, only to pick up another one.
She looks at the offscreen Elliot.
She reacts.
The camera moves to a blushing Elliot, following him now as he walks across the room.
As Lee speaks, Elliot parts a hanging curtain against the wall to reveal a stereo and some records.
He looks at the offscreen Lee.
As Elliot reaches inside the stereo shelf, grabbing a bottle of antihistamines, the camera moves back to Lee, who sits down on the bed.
She is still holding a book.
Elliot walks over to Lee; he sits down on a footstool in front of her.
She chuckles; Elliot smiles and chuckles with her.
Hannah, eating a carrot stick, enters the bedroom.
The camera stays with her momentarily as she walks towards Elliot and Lee.
Holly laughs.
Lee glances over to her, reacting.
Hannah, embarrassed, reacts and sits with her hands on her face.
They look at Evan, listening.
Hannah, embarrassed, makes a victory sign.
Lee and Holly try to suppress their laughter.
Norma glares at them.
Elliot wraps his arm around Hannah; he pulls her towards him affectionately and kisses her on the cheek.
She hugs him back.
Mavis the maid exits, carrying some trays, as the group starts to cheer and applaud.
Holly waves her napkin at April, then holds up her wine glass.
The group continues to cheer as they all toast Hannah.
She reacts, smiling but embarrassed.
The guests, sipping their wine, quiet down as Norma continues to speak.
Lee and Holly unsuccessfully try to contain their laughter.
Mavis reenters the dining room to serve more food to the children.
Norma toasts her daughter; everyone follows her.
The applause and cheers begin anew.
Hannah, reacting, chuckles.
Hannah tenderly takes Elliot's hand as she looks around the table.
He, in turn, kneads her shoulder, chuckling with equal tenderness.
Hannah, still embarrassed, looks down at a plate.
The group applauds once more, toasting and drinking, and warmly sounding their approval.
Classical string music plays as the film cuts to.
A taxi moves down Broadway towards the camera, passing a truck on the right, the Winter Garden marquee advertising Cats, and several buildings, and as the taxi moves offscreen, the classical music still playing, the movie cuts to the taxi's backseat.
Lee sits by the window, leaning her head in her hand, a reflective look on her face.
Lee stirs a cup of coffee on the counter of the loft's modern kitchen area; a nearby vase hold flowers.
She walks across the loft, with its high ceilings and beige walls, holding her coffee.
Lee continues to walk, past a modern chaise, a bookcase, some sofas, two columns.
Lamps hang down from the ceiling.
The classical music still plays in the background.
Lee stops at a plastic-enclosed work area.
Frederick can be seen working at a drawing board on the other side of the clear plastic screen.
As Lee walks over to the drawing board where Frederick is sitting, he is seen intently cleaning some paintbrushes with a rag.
Lee stands by him, leaning over the board, and looks directly at him.
The table is filled with cans of brushes and artist's equipment.
Frederick and Lee embrace; Lee sighs.
Lee kisses Frederick twice, then releases him and walks out of the work area.
Lee walks over to the loft's stereo area, pulling up the sleeves of her sweater as Frederick talks.
Lee picks up a book from the stereo shelf.
She leans back against the unit, glancing through its pages.
Frederick, leaving his work area, walks past Lee; his hands are in his pockets.
The camera stays with Frederick as he walks into the loft's bedroom area.
He sits down at the foot of the bed and starts taking off his shoes.
Lee sits down next to Frederick; he takes her hand.
Lee kisses Frederick back on the cheek.
They embrace.
Frederick laughs; their embrace gets tighter.
Without missing a beat, he takes Mary's wrist and continues walking.
As the group walks through a large doorway, Larry catches up to Mickey.
The group turns right into a new corridor, briefly off the screen.
As the group briskly walks past an open door, Gail, another assistant, runs out, brandishing her glasses.
The fast-tracking group turns the corner.
Gail pats Mickey's back; she gestures in exasperation.
He is interrupted by Ed Smythe, an official from the Standards and Practices Department, who's been standing in the corridor waiting for Mickey.
Mickey stops and shakes Ed's hand as if he'd known the official would be there.
Gail stops by his side while the others walk into a background studio doorway that is busy with scurrying personnel.
A writer, holding a script, walks out of the background studio, looking around.
Mickey and Gail walk over to the angry writer, Ed forgotten with this new crisis.
Mickey, Gail, and the writer start walking down a corridor adjacent to the studio.
The writer reacts angrily.
Gail tries to get Mickey's attention as they walk.
Mickey, still in surprised shock, turns away from the angry writer.
He stands by an open dressing room, where Ron, an actor, slouches, dazed, in a chair facing a makeup mirror.
People mill in the background behind the actor.
Mickey, remembering Ron, runs into the dressing room.
Gail follows him.
Inside, a man and a woman talk, ignoring Ron.
They share a drink in a paper cup.
The woman looks back at Ron; she gestures with disgust.
Ron coughs.
Gail walks around the chair.
The camera shows she and Mickey talking to Ron through the reflection in the cluttered makeup mirror.
Ron sighs.
Mickey, as reflected in the mirror, starts to pace as the.
Norman, a Los Angeles TV producer and Mickey's former partner, is driving down a peaceful street lined with palm trees.
He's wearing sunglasses and headphones.
He clicks his fingers in time to the music only he hears on his Walkman.
He's smiling contentedly while Mickey talks over the sun-filled scene.
As Mickey finishes his ruminations, Hannah is seen walking towards her front door.
She opens it, her back to the camera.
Mickey stands there holding two boxed gifts.
Hannah continues to nod patiently, patting Mickey on the back, as they make their way across the foyer into the den, where the twins are playing.
Mickey wears his coat.
Mickey hands a gift to each twin.
The twins put down their gifts, one on the sofa, one on the coffee table, and hug their father.
Mickey throws the football.
There's a sound of breaking glass.
Hannah and Mickey react.
Mickey is walking up a West Side street, his hands in his coat pockets.
Mickey pushes open the outside door of Dr. Abel's office, as the movie cuts to the doctor's consultation room.
The doctor is framed in the doorway, looking through a file cabinet.
While Mickey answers him offscreen, Dr. Abel turns and walks toward him.
The camera follows the doctor's movements from the other side of the wall, obscuring him briefly.
It moves across a dark examining-room wall to a second doorway, where Mickey sits on a stool, continuing to talk to the offscreen Dr. Abel.
Dr. Abel walks back onscreen.
Both he and Mickey are now seen through the second doorway.
Dr. Abel sniffs and stands directly in front of the sitting Mickey.
He stares down at him as Mickey talks.
Dr. Abel chuckles.
An uptempo big-band sound is heard as the movie cuts to Mickey's examination, beginning with a close-up of Dr. Abel using an otoscope to examine the ear of a nervous Mickey.
The film shows the doctors's hands turning the dials on a sonometer.
Mickey sits on a nearby high stool, large earphones on his head.
He listens with such concentration that he squints his eyes.
He holds up a finger in response to the sounds he hears in his headset.
Finally, the film shows Dr. Abel hitting a large turning fork with his finger.
He puts the vibrating fork to Mickey's ear.
Mickey, looking up at the offscreen doctor's face, nods.
Dr. Abel walks from the examining room, through the consultation room, to a second examining room across the way.
He talks to the offscreen Mickey as he walks.
Dr. Abel moves offscreen in the second examining room.
The camera stays focused on the doorway to this room as the doctor and Mickey talk offscreen.
Dr. Abel briefly passes by the doorway.
Looking preoccupied, Dr. Abel walks back into the consultation room, holding Mickey's open file.
He strides over to his desk, revealing a frightened Mickey, sitting in a chair opposite it.
Still standing, the doctor leans over the desk, his back to the camera, and makes a few notes in the file.
Dr. Abel chuckles as he closes Mickey's file and straightens up.
The camera looks past his back and shoulders to the anxious Mickey.
Dr. Abel lays his pen across Mickey's closed file.
He walks around his desk and sits on its edge close to Mickey.
Mickey stands in a telephone booth on a corner near Dr. Abel's office; he talks on the phone.
It is raining.
A man and a woman holding an umbrella pass by; traffic moves across a nearby intersection.
The film cuts to Dr. Wilkes, on the telephone at his end.
He is in his office; he leans back in his chair, dangling his stethoscope as he speaks.
Behind him, a chest X-ray is mounted on a light panel.
The movie cuts back and forth between Mickey in his phone booth asking questions and Dr. Wilkes in his office answering them.
Gail, wearing her glasses, stands behind a crowded but well- ordered desk.
Two assistants, a man and a woman, stand around her.
The assistants walk off.
As they leave, Gail calls out after them.
The telephone starts to ring, Gail pauses, looking offscreen.
She takes off her glasses and squints.
The film cuts to Mickey, who is pacing and wringing his hands.
He walks over to Gail.
He starts to pant, looking worriedly around the room.
He continues to wring his hands as Gail stares at him, concerned.
She sits down and picks up the phone.
Gail hangs up the phone.
He pants and begins to pace around the room.
The camera follows him as he walks away from Gail.
Mickey sighs.
Mickey begins pacing around the room again.
He wrings his hands and blows on them.
An abstract painting on a wall fills the screen.
Light laughter is heard, as well as the sophisticated music; offscreen brunch guests chatter indistinctly.
Holly walks onto the screen in front of the painting.
She holds an almost empty tray of hors d'oeuvres; she wears a uniform.
One of the men, murmuring his thanks, takes a last shrimp puff as Holly passes.
Holly finally makes her way into the cluttered loft kitchen.
Her tray is empty.
Holly, excited, runs over to April, who is busy taking the Stroganoff out of the oven.
She wears the same uniform as Holly: black skirt, white shirt, and black bowtie.
April, holding the Stroganoff, dashes out of the kitchen to serve the party guests.
Holly calls after her, offscreen, as David walks past the hurrying April into the kitchen.
David walks over to Holly, who is busy at the pot-and-pan- covered stove.
As Holly carries the quiche outside to the party, April comes back into the kitchen from another doorway.
She walks past David to a counter where she begins to fold napkins.
David leans back against the sink.
They shake hands.
April walks offscreen to another area of the kitchen.
Holly picks up a napkin from the crowded table.
David walks around the table, putting the plate of clams down on the already crowded surface.
Holly follows him, chuckling, throwing her napkin into an offscreen garbage can as David stops at a small television set near the doorway.
Guests in the other room can be seen chatting together in clusters.
Canned laughter and miscellaneous chatter is heard from the television set.
David watches the set, still munching on a clam, while Holly and April reassure him offscreen.
David checks his wristwatch as Holly walks over to him.
Holly chuckles as David, listening to April, impressed, walks over to her.
She is standing by the table.
April chuckles as Holly walks back onscreen; she is busy preparing another tray of hors d'oeuvres.
The three exchange glances.
Holly shrugs.
A contemporary red building, designed by David, is seen, squeezed in between two older buildings.
Holly, April, and David talk offscreen.
The film moves down from the buildings to reveal the trio sitting in David's Jaguar across the street.
David and April sit in the front seat; Holly sits scrunched up in back, her head slightly forward.
David turns and briefly glances at Holly; he then turns back to April.
The screen, which has been exploring the rococo building's facade, now shows the equally elegant building alongside it.
The film moves from the two elegant facade to show an ugly, ultra-modern structure covered with tiny, diamond-shaped motifs.
The film moves from the ugly facade to the building's equally ugly entrance.
A large car is parked right in front of the building.
The group is now seen walking down the canopied entrance stairs of an apartment house on the other side of the street, where they'd been gazing at both the lovely and ugly facades across the way.
David is in the lead; the women follow, Holly slightly behind April.
David leans over the roof of the car, looking at the women, waiting for their decision.
The movie cuts to Holly's point of view: the front seat where David and April sit, the Jaguar's windshield, and the passing lights and traffic of the street.
Holly continues her ruminations as April leans over to say something to David.
The film moves back to Holly in the backseat, still lost in thought.
The screen cuts to black and a title appears.
The movie briefly holds on a ripped, red, paint-splattered door as Elliot, wearing a raincoat, appears nearby.
He looks down the street and the film cuts to his point of view: Frederick's loft building.
The movie goes back to the impatient Elliot; he's looking around him.
He glances at his watch as the film cuts back once again to the loft building, where Lee finally appears, walking down the street away from Elliot.
A truck passes down the street.
She walks further and further away; she turns a corner.
Elliot frantically looks around again; then, in a burst of decision, he runs around a garbage dump, crossing the street, and still running, he moves down an adjacent street, past The Canal Lumber Company and several other buildings, as the film cuts back to Lee, walking down a different street, oblivious.
The jazz plays on as the movie cuts back and forth between the fast-moving Elliot, rushing down the SoHo streets, past a truck waiting for a light to change, past some pedestrians, some garbage cans, turning corners, and the strolling Lee, walking up different streets, past different buildings.
Lee eventually crosses a street, lost in thought, looking right and left, as Elliot, pretending nonchalance, waits on the corner, looking at his watch.
She looks up in surprise; the music stops.
They begin to walk down the street.
She shrugs.
They begin to walk again as the movie cuts to the interior of the Pageant Book & Print Shop, an old, serious bookstore.
A nude print hangs at the end of one of the library shelf- like bookcases, which are packed, row after row, with books.
An unseen Elliot and Lee carry on a conversation as the camera moves down an aisle, past the rows of books.
Pictures hang on the aisle ends of the shelves.
The camera moves past another aisle of books to reveal Lee, browsing through a shelf.
She walks down a center aisle, the camera still in its parallel aisle, following her.
Lee stops at the row where Elliot has been browsing.
She is hidden by a shelf; only Elliot is seen as he talks to the offscreen Lee.
Elliot starts walking down the center aisle, in the same direction Lee had walked up.
He continues to talk to her as she remains offscreen in a nearby row.
Elliot stops walking to browse through some books.
Elliot turns and walks back down the center aisle to a row of books he'd already passed.
Lee walks over to Elliot in the center aisle.
She looks at the book.
He hands Lee the book.
She thumbs through it, as the movie.
Lee, holding the book in a brown bag, and Elliot are walking out.
A taxi pulls over to the curb; they walk over to it.
Elliot opens the rear door for Lee.
She laughs as she gets in.
As Lee continues to read aloud, the movie cuts to Elliot's darkened den, lit by a light in the hallway.
Elliot enters, wearing a robe, crossing the room in the dark.
Elliot turns on a light.
The camera stays on his face as he looks off into the distance, mouthing indistinctly the line of poetry Lee next reads.
The film leaves Elliot's face and cuts back to the loft, where Lee, having finished the poem, sits up in the bed, staring pensively, lost in her thoughts.
Upbeat jazz begins to play and the film cuts to: The facade of Mount Sinai Hospital.
A few cars whiz by as the film moves inside, to various scenes depicting Mickey's comprehensive exam.
First is a hearing test, and the movie cuts to a darkened hearing-test room.
A light goes on, revealing a slouched- over Mickey sitting in a glass booth.
He is wearing a set of headphones.
The camera moves back, revealing a technician at the console on the other side of the booth.
Mickey signals with his finger when he hears a sound on his headset.
Next is an electronystagmography (ENG).
Graph paper rolls out of a machine, and after a brief glimpse of the rolling paper, the camera moves over to show Mickey lying terrified, without his glasses, on a couch, with electrodes stuck all over his head.
The film then cuts to a BSER test room, where Mickey, sitting in a corner chair, wears another set of headphones.
An electrode is attached to his forehead; a nearby technician sits at a computer video screen, looking at a monitoring graph.
Last but not least is the tomography.
Over the shoulders of a technician in a booth, a large window displays a huge, white rotating machine.
The camera moves down the giant cranelike device to reveal Mickey, once again lying down, this time on a table, his eyes closed, underneath it.
A sitting Dr. Grey, his back to the camera, is examining a group of X-rays clipped to the light board behind his desk.
The doctor turns his chair around to face a tense Mickey sitting on the other side of his desk.
Mickey stares at the X-ray, horrified.
Mickey is seen leaving the hospital.
He strides slowly, his shoulders slouched, his hands in his pockets.
His voice is heard over the screen as he crosses the street, continuing his self-absorbed walk on the opposite side.
Occasional traffic goes by.
Mickey brushes against a heavyset man who gives him a nasty look.
Mickey is so dazed, he doesn't even notice.
The dark bedroom is abruptly lit as Mickey, lying in his bed, wakes up with a start and turns on his night-table lamp.
Mickey, still ruminating, stands up.
Fixing his pants, he walks out of his bedroom loft into a dark upper hallway.
He walks down a spiral staircase into the dark living room.
The film cuts to a flashback of Mickey's past.
Dr. Smith, sitting behind his desk, faces the camera.
Rows of periodicals line the wall behind him.
The camera moves to Dr. Smith's point of view: Hannah and Mickey, sitting on the opposite side of the desk.
They look stunned.
The camera moves back to the stunned Mickey and Hannah, following Dr. Smith with their eyes.
Dr. Smith walks back to his high-backed leather chair behind the desk and sits down.
As he talks, the camera moves closer and closer to his face.
Mickey and Hannah walk on the sidewalk, oblivious of the passing pedestrians.
Hannah, crying, blows her nose.
Hannah sobs, clutching her tissue to her face.
They walk offscreen and the film cuts to Hannah and Mickey's living room.
The room is brightly lit; it's cluttered with pillows and plants.
Norman and Carol, his wife, sit on the couch drinking coffee.
Mickey walks from the kitchen into the living room, holding a half-eaten chocolate cake on a serving plate.
The sun pours through the windows he passes.
Hannah is briefly seen in the background, preparing more coffee in the kitchen.
Mickey puts the cake down on the coffee table, which is already crowded with assorted plants, plates, and a bamboo tray holding utensils and napkins.
Mickey sighs and flops down on an adjoining couch.
He rubs his forehead.
Norman chuckles.
He starts to pace.
Hannah, her hands clasped near her face, glances briefly at Carol.
Hannah sighs.
Mickey pauses for a moment, collecting his thoughts.
Mickey stops his pacing and looks at the group.
He starts to pace behind the couch anew.
Norman and Carol remain silent.
Mickey stops pacing and leans on the couch behind Norman.
Mickey, rubbing his hands on his knees, leans back against the wall.
Norman and Carol turn to each other, reacting.
Carol glances at Norman.
She chuckles nervously.
He takes a sip of coffee.
Hannah reaches for the cake as Carol and Norman exchange glances, reacting.
The flashback ends.
Mickey is back in the present in his darkened living room, illuminated by a glow from a window behind the couch.
A coffee table sits in front of the couch.
Papers are scattered on the floor.
Mickey gets up from the couch where he'd been sitting.
He paces back and forth as he talks over the screen.
Manon Lescaut is being performed.
Onstage, the soprano in the title role sings a mournful aria as she kneels by the ruins of a wagon.
The background is dark.
The film moves up to the private boxes in the upper loge.
David and Holly can be seen from a distance sitting in one of the boxes.
David glances at her; he reaches down for a bottle of wine.
The movie briefly cuts back to the stage.
The soprano is leaning on a wagon wheel; her voice soars.
Then it's back to a closer look at Holly and David in their box.
The aria continues as David hands a smiling Holly a glass.
He uncorks the wine and pours some in both their glasses.
Holly mouths a thank you, glancing around.
They look at each other and raise their glasses in a toast.
Lee, wearing a baggy plaid shirt and jeans, has opened the door for Elliot and his client, wealthy rock star Dusty Frye.
Lee closes the door behind the men and walks over to Dusty.
Lee chuckles as she looks at him; he is wearing sunglasses, a red-imprinted T-shirt, and a baggy coat.
She turns and walks with Frederick, Elliot, and Dusty farther into the loft, her hands clasped behind her back.
Frederick covers his face to hide his disgust.
As Dusty talks, the camera follows Elliot, who walks past the others to examine the drawings more closely.
Two framed nude drawings of Lee are propped up on an easel.
Elliot glances admiringly at the drawings, then surreptitiously at Lee, admiring her body as she converses with an offscreen Dusty and Frederick.
The camera leaves Elliot to follow the enthusiastic Lee as she takes Dusty by the arm and starts leading him to the door.
Frederick follows at a distance.
The camera now moves back to Elliot, still staring at the nude drawings, as the sounds of Frederick's and Dusty's footsteps are heard leaving the loft.
He turns and hesitantly smiles to an offscreen Lee.
He laughs.
Lee, uneasy, looks down.
There's an awkward moment of silence.
The camera follows Lee as she walks quickly to the stereo unit, pulling a record off the shelf.
She pulls the record out of its jacket and puts it on the turntable.
The record in place, Lee turns and leans back against the stereo unit.
She listens to the music, her eyes closed.
The record plays for a few moments in the quiet room, as Elliot walks over to Lee and leans against the shelf near her.
Lee, smiling, continues to listen to the music, her head down; Elliot stares at her.
Elliot nods.
Elliot stares at Lee, who continues to look down, her arms around her chest.
Lee looks down again; the music plays softly and Elliot continues to stare at her, thinking.
As Elliot's thoughts are heard over the scene, Lee glances around the loft, then begins to walk away.
The camera follows her as she goes past the nude drawings, which become the focus of attention as Lee walks offscreen.
Lee walks back onscreen, to the bookshelf behind the drawings.
She takes the Edward Estlin Cummings book from the shelf and flips through it as she walks back to Elliot, who is still leaning by the stereo, still ruminating.
Elliot leaps up, grabs Lee, and kisses her passionately.
Lee, surprised, pushes him away.
He kisses Lee again.
He clumsily turns around; she bumps against the stereo unit.
As Lee pulls away, she smashes into the turntable.
Lee, shocked, is gasping.
Elliot quickly turns away from Lee.
She tries to compose herself and the film cuts to the loft entranceway.
Frederick enters the loft first, followed by a confused Dusty.
They stride across the loft past Lee, who is standing by the stereo.
Elliot, standing near the nude drawings, is looking through a book.
Dusty settles down in the backseat and closes the door.
Elliot leans down to the chauffeur's window, signaling for him to start driving.
The limousine drives off.
Elliot runs to a phone booth across the street.
He picks up the phone and dials.
The film cuts to Frederick in his loft, standing near the phone.
Frederick picks it up.
When no one answers, Frederick, reacting, hangs up, and the film moves back outside to the phone booth, where Elliot, the phone receiver to his ear, listens for a moment, then hangs up.
He walks out of the booth, reacting, then walks down the sidewalk, where he bumps into a frantic Lee, just turning the corner.
Elliot, uneasy, glances up in the direction of Frederick's loft.
He leads Lee a few yards up the street, away from any prying eyes.
She sighs.
Lee looks at him.
She sighs.
She walks off.
Elliot stares after her, grinning.
He laughs.
A taxi turns a West Side street corner and stops in front of Evan and Norma's building, which is decorated with a long metal awning.
It's an overcast day.
A station wagon on the opposite side of the street pulls away as Hannah, a white scarf fluttering over her shoulder, gets out of the cab.
She runs into the building; the taxi drives away.
Evan, his back to the camera, walks to the front door and opens it to Hannah.
Through a doorway, Norma can be seen sitting on a chair in the kitchen.
She wears a robe over a slip and stockings; she's drinking.
Evan stands in the doorway looking at her; he doesn't go in.
Norma reacts, turning to her daughter.
Hannah, however, has her back turned.
She is busy taking charge in the kitchen as Evan speaks.
She takes some pills out of a cupboard and hands them to her mother with a glass of water.
The camera moves to Evan, who continues to tell his story, ignoring his wife's outburst, as he walks away from the kitchen doorway into the den.
Evan walks over to the piano, where several framed family photographs sit in a line on its top.
He picks one up as Norma speaks offscreen in the kitchen.
The camera moves back to the kitchen as Norma talks.
She is still glaring offscreen at the doorway where Evan stood moments before.
She holds the water glass and the pills.
Evan is back in the doorway, listening to Norma, getting more and more angry.
As he makes a retort, he starts to walk back to the den and his piano.
Hannah goes back to Norma; she takes the glass of water away.
Hannah, choosing to ignore Evan's remark, hands her mother a cup of coffee; she puts her mother's hands on the cup.
Norma sips her coffee, softly sobbing.
Hannah, reacting, walks away from the counter and, capping the bottle of pills, puts them back in the cupboard.
The camera moves in on Hannah's face as she reflects, her voice heard over the screen.
The camera leaves Hannah's face as she continues to reflect; it moves to the den, to the row of family photos on the piano: one of a present-day Evan and Norma, others where both Norma and Evan are young, beautiful, hopeful.
The film cuts back to the kitchen.
Norma stands up; Hannah takes her coffee cup and sets it on the counter.
She puts her arm around Hannah's shoulder.
Mother and daughter walk out of the kitchen.
Norma chuckles.
They stop at the entrance to the den.
Evan can be seen playing the piano as they continue their conversation.
Norma chortles.
Hannah laughs, touching her mother.
They walk over to Evan at the piano.
Norma leans over the piano; Hannah looks off into the distance, deep in reflection.
The piano music continues in the background as the movie cuts to: Lee walking along a wharf by the waterfront.
The wind blows her hair; she hugs the Edward Estlin Cummings book to her chest.
She, too, is deep in thought.
She stops at the edge of the wharf; the camera continues to move, to a group of wooden pilings nearby, lapped by the water.
The piano piece ends and the film is quiet.
The quiet continues as the film cuts to a close-up of a large, circular CAT-scan module in an antiseptic hospital room.
A slowly moving stretcher, bearing Mickey's strapped prone body, begins to enter the round opening of the module.
As the camera pulls back from Mickey, his taped head under the scan, two technicians can be seen through the window separating the scanner from the control room.
One of them, sitting down, taps information into a computer while the other technician stands nearby, looking from Mickey to the computer screen.
The movie then cuts briefly to the computer screen, showing an image of Mickey's skull.
Scan lines bleep over the skull.
The camera moves up from the screen to reveal Mickey once again, as seen through the window, silent and serious under the CAT-scan module.
From Mickey's prone form, the film moves to the two technicians, as seen through the window in the scanner room.
They examine the computer screen and talk indistinctly to each other.
One of the men, nodding, taps more information into the computer.
While they're studying the CAT-scan picture, the camera cuts to a back view of Mickey under the module.
There is a science- fiction feel to this scene, as if Mickey is lying in the center of a huge, white, futuristic circle.
The stretcher, bearing Mickey, slowly moves out of the module.
Dr. Brooks, holding Mickey's X-rays, walks past a row of bookshelves to his light panel.
He props up the X-rays.
Dr. Brooks turns to an offscreen Mickey.
The film quickly cuts to a close-up of Mickey's face, reacting in total despair.
He closes his eyes; he covers his face with his hand.
Once again, Mickey is seen leaving the building, but this time he bounds down the steps, jumping for joy.
He runs swirling down the street, clapping his hands, happy with relief.
Several cars pass as Mickey joyfully runs.
Suddenly he stops, his hand to his mouth, reflecting.
Gail sits in a chair in front of a bookshelf.
Mickey, standing behind his desk, his back to the camera, his coat still on, looks out at the Manhattan skyline.
Gail gets up from her chair.
She walks past Mickey to a nearby cabinet.
She opens a drawer, rummaging around for something.
The camera follows her, leaving Mickey briefly.
As Mickey continues to talk offscreen, Gail closes the cabinet drawer and walks to a file cabinet behind Mickey's desk.
Gail opens the file cabinet and takes out a pack of gum.
She slams it closed, distracted.
Gail sighs.
She pops a piece of gum into her mouth as Mickey continues to speak.
Mickey sighs.
Pedestrians pass.
The camera moves up the hotel's facade, past its welcoming flags, to its ornate windows several floors up.
Elliot, his back to the camera, is opening the door to Lee.
Elliot closes the door behind her as she enters.
They stand very close to each other, framed by the door and a stark, subtly striped wallpapered wall.
They walk towards the camera, further into the room.
Elliot puts his arm around Lee.
The camera follows Lee as she walks towards the curtained windows, past a fireplace, a mirror, some innocuous pictures, a delicate table holding a lamp, the foot of the bed.
She parts a corner of the curtains, looking out the window, turning when Elliot speaks.
He walks over to Lee by the curtained windows.
He takes Lee into his arms.
They kiss, their figures almost silhouetted in the warm glow of the room.
Elliot takes Lee's coat off without breaking the kiss.
They embrace.
They kiss each other lightly, then stronger, more passionately, their embrace much tighter.
The harpsichord music begins to play again as the camera moves over the bed covers to reveal Lee, lying contentedly under the sheets, her hair fanned out on the pillows, one arm near her head.
He enters the screen, sitting down on the edge of the bed next to Lee.
He holds a cigarette.
Elliot chuckles; they hold hands.
Elliot leans down to Lee; they begin to kiss passionately.
Lee walks along the sidewalk in the rain; she's bareheaded.
A car drives by; a pedestrian passes holding an umbrella.
Lee passes a restaurant well lit inside by hanging lamps.
The baroque music continues as she enters the loft, her head soaked.
She closes the door, touching her soaking hair.
Lee walks through the loft's living room area, unbelting her coat, towards the bathroom.
She passes Frederick, who sits at a table in the kitchen area, drinking a cup of coffee and reading the paper.
As he talks, Lee is seen turning on the bathroom light.
She takes off her coat, hanging it on a hook, then begins to dry her hair with a towel.
Frederick takes a bite of his sandwich and another sip of coffee as Lee walks out of the bathroom, tossing the towel down on the counter.
She takes a kettle and fills it with water.
As Frederick continues his monologue, Lee is busy in the background: striking a wooden match and lighting a burner on the stove for the kettle, taking a glass out of the cupboard, walking into the bathroom for some pills, filling the glass with water in the kitchen sink, and taking her pills.
He takes a bite of his sandwich and a sip of coffee.
Lee sets her glass on the kitchen counter and walks towards the bedroom area.
She starts to take off her wet clothes by the bed.
Frederick takes off his glasses.
He turns and looks at Lee in surprise.
He pulls Lee down next to him on the bed.
She sighs.
Lee runs into the kitchen, her hands tight around her chest.
Lee, fraught with emotion, briefly puts her outstretched hands on the refrigerator door, then turns around and leans against it, hugging herself, her blouse still unbuttoned, her hair still wet and bedraggled.
Frederick enters the kitchen area and leans against the counter.
Frederick cringes, reacting.
He puts his hand to his forehead; he sighs.
Lee turns and faces Frederick in the bathroom doorway.
Frederick furiously shakes Lee away.
He pounds his fist against a cupboard.
Lee, gasping, moves away.
He puts his hand on his forehead, then turns to the offscreen Lee.
He walks over to Lee in another area of the kitchen.
Frederick turns away from Lee.
He begins to pace near the counter.
He loudly pounds his fist on the counter in despair and frustration, then covers his eyes with his hands in sorrow.
Hannah, wearing a plaid shirt, sits up in bed, a book propped up on her knees.
She turns the page as Elliot, in pajamas and silk bathrobe, enters.
She continues to read her book as he sits down at the edge of the bed and muses.
Elliot frantically stands up and leaves the room.
Elliot walks quickly into the darkened hallway.
Elliot switches on the light.
He paces back and forth in front of the piano and an accompanying music stand.
Elliot stops pacing and checks his wristwatch.
Elliot jumps.
The movie cuts to Lee, standing in the dark in Frederick's loft.
She talks softly into the telephone.
Lee hangs up the phone and the movie cuts back to Elliot, standing in his living room.
Stunned, he slowly lowers the phone receiver.
Jazz is heard as the movie cuts to the outside of a university library, the camera focused on a huge replica of Rodin's Thinker before moving to the front entrance.
Mickey can be seen emerging from its depths.
He ponders the scene as he walks past the statue and a small front garden and down the sidewalk.
Passersby, some holding books, are seen.
A male jogger, seen through some tree branches, runs by.
Several joggers pass Mickey; he continues to ruminate.
Mickey goes over to the chain-link fence encircling the reservoir.
He stops walking and looks out over the water.
Mickey continues to look through the fence at the water and the distant skyline.
A jogger crosses in front of him.
The film cuts abruptly to Mickey's flashback of his date with Holly, beginning with a rock club performance.
Three punkers--a girl with pink hair, a girl with a spiked mohawk, and a guy with Stevie Wonder braids and sunglasses--watch and bop their heads to the sounds of the offscreen rock band, The Steps.
The camera moves to the stage, revealing a sleazy-looking rock band in the midst of their number.
As the band loudly plays on, the camera moves across the spellbound audience, sitting at crowded, smoky, small tables, to reveal a stricken Mickey and a mesmerized Holly squeezed together at one of them.
A nearby member of the audience swills beer from a bottle.
Holly, beating time to the music and enjoying herself, takes a puff of her cigarette.
She glances at Mickey impatiently.
Holly turns back to the band, who are still in full swing.
The camera moves down the body of the lead singer, singing into a microphone, from his longish, curly red hair, through his cut-off red shirt and sweaty torso, to his guitar.
The camera moves back to Holly and the even more stricken- looking Mickey.
They are crowded in with people.
In the background, a waitress holds up a tray.
A man drinks from a glass mug; people chatter indistinctly over the loud band.
Holly glances at Mickey once again, this time unable to contain her annoyance.
She opens a vial of cocaine.
Holly holds a short metal straw of cocaine to her nose and sniffs it.
While Mickey pleads with her, Holly puts her cocaine vial into her purse.
She holds a finger against one nostril and sniffs.
She then picks up her lit cigarette and continues to smoke.
Mickey and Holly, almost in dark silhouette, are walking at a fast clip along the sidewalk, arguing.
They pass some lighted clothing store windows; a few cars go by in the dark street.
The audience at their tables watch him, some with smiles of pleasure.
A man has his arm around a woman.
Mickey and Holly sit at one of the tables; a candle burns in its holder on the tabletop.
Holly takes a cigarette from her purse as she holds her hand to her nose, sniffing.
Mickey keeps shooting glances at Holly; she can't sit still.
Holly lights her cigarette, dropping her matchbook on the floor.
She bends down to pick it up, then starts to fidget in her chair.
She gulps her wine; she sniffs.
Mickey tries to watch the offscreen Bobby Short; he crosses his arms across his chest.
The film cuts back briefly to Bobby Short playing the piano.
A taxi pulls away from the curb as Mickey and Holly walk out of the hotel through its revolving doors.
Holly stays under the awning; Mickey walks to the curb and looks angrily back at her.
People pass by as Mickey walks back and forth from the curb to Holly, growing angrier and angrier.
A taxi pulls up to the curb.
Mickey and Holly walk up to its rear door.
He holds the door open for Holly.
She gets in.
Holly slams the door.
Mickey starts to walk along the sidewalk as the taxi drives off; he passes the hotel and several evening-lit store windows.
Both a bus and a taxi drive down the street, blocking Mickey from view.
Elliot and Lee can be seen dancing cheek to cheek in the reflection of a mirror over a dresser.
Elliot and Lee dance into view.
Without missing a beat, Elliot picks up one of the glasses of champagne and hands it to Lee.
She sips.
Elliot sips, then puts it back down on the dresser.
They embrace tightly, continuing to dance.
Elliot, Hannah, and the twins sit at the dining room table.
Hannah's two adopted children stand by her chair; she is showing them how a small camera works.
The children watch her, fascinated, muttering among themselves.
Elliot looks listless.
He stares blankly at the table.
The child takes the camera from Hannah, as well as picking up a second identical one from the table.
The adopted children leave, the twins going off with them.
When they're gone, Hannah takes a sip of her coffee and looks at Elliot.
She puts down her cup, still watching him.
Hannah sighs.
Elliot angrily throws his napkin on the table.
He stands up and begins to pace behind Hannah.
He sits down again, in a chair next to Hannah; the ketchup bottle sits in front of him.
The camera moves in on Elliot's anguished face.
He looks down.
Hannah leans over and tenderly puts her hand on his shoulder.
She touches his hand; Elliot embraces her.
Elliot kisses Hannah again; they embrace tightly.
She touches his hair.
The screen shows a metal staircase next to a large white column.
Holly's voice can be heard as she and Hannah make their way up the stairs, moving into view.
A man carrying a shopping bag walks down the steps; he passes them.
Holly follows Hannah to a rack of blouses.
Hannah takes a jacket on a hanger off the rack and looks at it.
She holds it to her.
Hannah turns to Holly with surprise.
She puts the jacket back on the rack and stares at her; she inhales.
Hannah begins to look at the rack of clothes on Holly's side, while her sister stares at her, frowning.
Hannah takes a blouse off the rack and looks at it.
The two sisters walk away from the rack, Hannah slightly in the lead.
Holly pauses, looking at her sister.
They continue to walk.
Holly looks at her sister for a beat.
A female customer, who'd come over to the table, browsing through the rack of clothes near Hannah, looks up, reacting.
She walks away.
She walks past Holly and briefly looks at a different rack of clothes beneath the table.
She walks offscreen to a nearby rack; the camera remains focused on Holly.
Holly chuckles and begins to look through the scarves on the table.
A group of theater executives, including the producer, the director, and two assistants, sit in a cluster in the empty audience, talking; they look up at the offscreen Holly, who is auditioning on the stage.
The film moves from the audience to the stage where Holly, her hands clasped in front of her, continues to sing her song.
A large group of other hopefuls are seen in the background behind her.
The camera moves from Holly back to the executives in the audience.
The camera has reached the executives in the audience.
They are now chattering among themselves, Holly forgotten.
A theater marquee can be seen on the busy street as Holly and April walk down the street towards the camera, moving closer and closer as they talk.
Holly looks away sadly; she shakes her head.
The film cuts to Father Flynn's rectory office.
The Catholic priest looks out a simple stained-glass window, then turns to an offscreen Mickey.
The camera moves back to reveal Mickey, his back to the camera, sitting in front of Father Flynn's desk.
The movie cuts to Mickey's face.
The camera cuts back to Father Flynn, who walks over to a leather armchair next to a table set for tea.
He begins to pour the tea into china cups.
Father Flynn clasps his hands in his lap.
The film abruptly cuts to the long hallway in Mickey's parents' apartment.
Mickey's mother stands in the front of this bureau at the hallway's end, screaming at the top of her lungs, holding her heart dramatically.
His father walks into view, carrying a teacup and a candy dish.
He strides past Mickey towards the kitchen.
Holding the dirty dishes in his hand, Mickey's father looks at his son.
Mickey's father walks offscreen again, to the kitchen sink.
Mickey's father walks out of the kitchen, past his son, to the living room.
Mickey stops at the bathroom door at the other end of the hallway.
He starts to pound it.
Mickey's father comes back on screen; he's carrying a plate of hors d'oeuvres and an empty glass towards the kitchen.
He stops and looks down the hall at Mickey, who's now struggling to open the bathroom door.
Mickey, reacting, hits his forehead.
Mickey starts pounding the door again as the movie cuts to: A beautiful snow-covered church downtown, complete with courtyard and wrought-iron fence.
A pedestrian walks by with an umbrella.
The music continues as the film moves inside, where the choir is seen singing behind an altar glowing warm gold.
A fairly large congregation sits in darkened pews as the film cuts to the back, where Mickey, his arms crossed, stands underneath some stained-glass windows, watching and listening to the inspiring music.
The choir continues to sing as the movie cuts to Father Flynn in his office.
He picks up some large, heavy books from a shelf near his window and he walks over to Mickey, who's standing near his desk, already holding several tomes.
Father Flynn puts the books on top of Mickey's pile; Mickey, flipping through the top one, awkwardly carries his bundle to the door.
Next is seen a close-up of a painting of Jesus Christ on the cross, complete with crown of thorns and holy expression.
The hymn plays on, loudly, as the camera moves back, revealing Mickey, standing outside a barber shop window, looking at the Christ playing and shuffling from side to side to gets its eyes' effect.
Mickey turns from the window, shrugging, and starts to walk down the street, past a fruit and vegetable store with open- air-displayed flowers, past several briskly moving pedestrians.
With the hymn still playing, the screen goes black briefly.
Mickey opens the door, the light from a hallway illuminating him.
He's just entered his apartment.
He closes the door and walks through his dark foyer; he carries a brown bag.
He switches on the light, and walking past his spiral staircase, past several framed pictures on the wall, he makes his way to his living room coffee table.
Mickey pulls a crucifix out of the bag; he looks at it, then puts it on the table near a pile of books and some objets d'art.
He then takes out a copy of the New Testament, putting it on top of the crucifix.
Then out comes a framed picture of a saint.
It too gets put on the growing pile.
Next comes a large loaf of Wonder Bread and a large jar of Hellman's mayonnaise.
Mickey sets them on top of the saint.
Lee is walking down the street, looking around her.
She passes some office buildings, a store's large display window; she stops when she sees Hannah.
Her sister is waiting outside the Art Deco facade of a restaurant; she's looking in the opposite direction.
Lee taps Hannah on the shoulder; Hannah, surprised, turns and gasps.
She turns and walks towards the restaurant entrance.
They disappear inside.
The camera follows them, cutting to the restaurant's interior at the same time the sisters walk in.
A waiter in uniform stands near its glass and metal doors, holding a tray to his chest; a few people sit at the bar; a large plant in a vase sits in the foreground.
The sisters walk toward the coatcheck area, deep in conversation.
Hannah walks offscreen, farther into the coatcheck room.
She talks offscreen as Lee alone is seen, reacting and speaking as well.
In the background, a waiter crosses over to the bar, then walks away.
She takes off her gloves and scarf, stuffing them in her bag).
The hostess appears, peeking around the corner of the coatcheck area.
She signals for the three sisters to follow her.
The sisters walk to their seats, at a round table in the middle of the room; the hostess puts down their menus.
They sit down.
The hostess leaves.
Other diners are seen in the background; a waiter is taking the order of a couple sitting on a banquette; other waiters clear off a table.
As the camera slowly circles the table, Hannah is seen listening to Holly, her hand on her mouth.
Lee looks up, her hand still on her mouth, watching Hannah, as the camera slowly moves off her to show Hannah.
The camera is back on Lee.
She looks around tensely, barely listening to the conversation.
She fidgets.
She puffs intensely on her cigarette as the camera slowly circles to Hannah's face.
She is equally intense, looking at both sisters as she speaks.
She opens her menu, then turns to Lee, reacting suddenly to her sister, who is rubbing her forehead, looking terribly upset.
The camera moves down the tree to reveal a well-kept, red-brick brownstone on a pleasant, sunny New York City street.
A man wearing a summer suit walks by as the film moves inside the building, to Elliot's analyst's office.
The psychotherapist sits in a comfortable armchair next to a curtained window.
The music stops as the camera moves across the room to reveal Elliot, sitting in a wooden chair.
He holds a long, thin cigarette; he wears a gold Rolex watch.
Elliot raises his cigarette to take a drag.
The camera follows the cigarette up to his face.
Elliot looks thoughtful as the movie cuts to.
Lee, wearing jeans and carrying an armful of books, is running up a broad set of steps in the sunlight, greeting other students as she passes.
Lee stops on a portico and turns to greet Doug, a professor, who is running over to her, calling her name.
They mouth hello, smiling, and begin to walk off together.
The film cuts back to Elliot in his analyst's office.
Elliot takes a last drag on his cigarette.
The camera follows his hand as he crushes it out in a nearby ashtray.
Hare Krishna music is heard over a sunlit view of the Manhattan skyline and the green trees of Central Park.
The camera moves down to reveal a large group of Hare Krishnas dancing on the broad green lawn among other New Yorkers enjoying the day.
The leader, holding some pamphlets, stands by a chain-link fence, a few feet away from his group, talking to someone on the other side.
It's Mickey, as the camera soon shows, wearing a short-sleeved shirt, a paper tucked under his arm.
Mickey walks off, the Hare Krishnas still dancing and singing on the other side of the fence.
He flips through the literature as he walks, then looks straight ahead, pondering.
Mickey puts his hand to his mouth as another title appears on a black screen.
A bench faces some wharf pilings; the water gently laps against them as Lee walks into view, the wind blowing her hair.
She stands and faces the water and the distant skyline across the bay.
Lee is alone; her hands are in her pockets.
The concerto stops and the movie cuts to Holly, leaning into an open phone booth near a subway entrance.
People rush past Holly towards the subway; others are walking up the station steps.
Holly smokes a cigarette as she talks on the phone to Hannah.
Holly hangs up the phone and takes a drag on her cigarette.
She looks off in the distance, smiling, as the film cuts to.
Guests are crowded together in the living room, surrounding the piano, where Evan is sitting and flipping through some sheet music.
Norma stands behind him, leaning against a book-laden wall.
The guests are chattering, enjoying themselves; a lamp glows on the corner of the piano.
A little boy sitting in a chair next to Evan is talking animatedly with a girl who is leaning over the arm of the sofa.
An adult guest talks to the little boy; another guest takes a sip of wine from a glass she'd placed on the bookshelf behind her as Evan turns and addresses the group.
The guests laugh appreciatively.
A woman comes over to Evan and hands him some wine.
He laughs; the guests laugh with him.
The guest continue to laugh; they are charmed.
Evan continues to laugh with everyone as he starts to play the piano.
A nearby woman toasts him with her drink.
The camera moves around the room as he plays, showing the various guests, chattering over the music.
Some are in clusters, in private conversations; others listen and watch the offscreen Evan.
A couple stands by the window; one man gets up from his chair and walks away.
Some guests sip their drinks, smiling, as the camera moves back to the piano and the book- laden wall.
Evan is playing the piano with exuberance.
Norma, still standing behind him, has a poignant, wistful expression on her face.
Mavis the maid walks by with a tray of hors d'oeuvres.
The man takes one, mouthing his thanks, as the camera travels past the open bookshelf, past two boys in suits who are drinking soda and munching, to reveal Lee.
She is leaning against another doorway, a faraway look on her face as she listens to the music.
Mavis passes in the hall beyond the doorway.
Several people, deep in conversation, stand nearby as Elliot, holding a drink, walks up behind her.
Lee slips past Elliot and walks away.
Elliot looks back at her briefly, then, sipping his drink, he turns and looks offscreen at the crowd in the living room.
Holly is standing in the pantry, preparing some offscreen food.
Hannah walks into view, headed for the refrigerator.
She carries two tomatoes.
Hannah opens the refrigerator, totally ignoring Holly.
Hannah walks over to the table, gathering up more food.
Holly walks over to the sink and washes her hands.
She dries her hands as Hannah, her arms laden with vegetables, strides over to her sister.
Hannah storms out a nearby door as Holly turns away from the sink.
Holly wipes her hand on the towel as Hannah reenters the kitchen, carrying even more vegetables.
Hannah strides into the pantry area and flops the vegetables down on the counter.
Holly puts the dishtowel down and absently straightens some things on the food-laden table.
Hannah angrily gathers up some spices from the table; Holly walks back onscreen holding a silver ice bucket.
She stops at the corner of the table and faces Hannah.
Hannah picks up a large bowl and carries it, as well as her armload of spices, into the pantry area.
Hannah, reacting, puts the spices down on the pantry counter.
Holly turns away.
Guests can be seen mingling and talking and helping themselves at a buffet table in the living room.
Lee and Elliot can be heard offscreen as the camera slowly moves from the doorway across the empty dining room to reveal them in the midst of an intense conversation.
Lee goes over to an open door and closes it quickly.
The door opens and Mavis appears, holding a set of candlesticks.
She walks over to the dining room table, which is already decked out with a floral centerpiece, glassware, and china.
She puts them down as Lee and Elliot stand awkwardly near the door, waiting for her to leave.
They look at each other, reacting, as the film cuts back to Hannah's kitchen.
Norma's face can be seen in the porthole window on the other side of the pantry's swinging door.
She looks around the kitchen, then opens the door and steps inside.
Holly stands nearby, working in the pantry area.
Holly chuckles.
Norma steps back out of the kitchen, the door swinging shut behind her.
Holly looks at the door, sipping her wine, as the movie cuts back to Hannah's living room.
A chubby, friendly uncle sits on a sofa, one child on his lap and several others gathered cross-legged around him on the floor.
They lean on the coffee table, which is covered with glasses and a bowl of chips.
Other guests mingle in the background; one couple enters the living room, smiling at the scene on the sofa.
Mavis crosses the well-lit foyer in the background and opens the door to more guests.
The uncle pours more beer from his bottle into the kids' outstretched glasses.
They cry indistinctly with excitement.
Laughing, he turns to the little girl sitting on his lap; he clinks his bottle against the bottle she is holding, which is almost as big as she is.
The uncle and the children happily drink their beer as the movie cuts to a wall with subtly patterned wallpaper in Hannah's bedroom.
Her face moves on to the screen.
Hannah walks towards Elliot; he's in the bathroom standing over the sink.
Elliot walks from behind the partially closed door to an offscreen medicine cabinet.
Elliot turns back to the sink, once again obscured by the partially closed door.
He dries his hands as Hannah, standing behind him, continues to talk.
He closes the door, briefly obscuring Hannah and himself from view.
The camera moves behind the closed door, into the bathroom.
He opens the medicine cabinet and puts the aspirin bottle back.
Elliot slams the medicine cabinet shut.
He leaves.
Hannah watches him go, reacting.
She is stunned.
Piano music is still heard very softly in the background as Hannah, hugging herself, walks slowly down the hallway into the living room.
She briefly looks around, lost in thought.
She sits down heavily, tiredly, on the arm of the couch as the movie cuts to several framed photographs on the mantel.
The camera, however, moves closer and closer to a photograph showing Hannah, Lee, and Holly, the three sisters, smiling into the camera.
The film shows the bedroom night table, holding a small lamp, a wooden box, a cast-iron fire truck, an ashtray, and glasses.
Elliot's pajama-clad arm moves into view.
He turns off the lamp; the room is now pitch-black.
Elliot turns the lamp back on, then turns to Hannah; she is lying on her side of the bed, partially in shadow.
He leans over and kisses her.
Mickey, his hands in his pockets, walks along the sidewalk, one person among many other pedestrians.
He pulls his coat tighter around him as he walks.
He glances inside.and sees Holly, her jacket flung over her shoulders, looking at some records.
Mickey walks through the revolving doors of Tower Records, up a few stairs to the selling floor proper, and stops right in front of Holly.
Holly chuckles and turns to look at more records.
She walks down the aisle, occasionally glancing at the bins of records.
Mickey walks beside her.
Mickey walks back onscreen to Holly.
The two of them are partially obscured by a large white Jazz sign imprinted with a large red circle as they continue their conversation.
Mickey pulls out a record and looks at it.
Holly looks hopefully at Mickey.
Holly laughs, embarrassed, as Mickey puts the record he's been looking at back in the bin.
Holly chuckles, looking off for a moment.
There is a brief pause and the movie cuts to.
The screen shows a chaise in Mickey's apartment; an ashtray on a stand sits nearby.
The camera moves down the chaise, past several piles of books, to Mickey's coffee table.
He sits, picking at his fingers and listening, on the edge of the table in front of Holly, who is sitting cross-legged on the floor, propped up with a pillow, reading her script aloud.
Holly closes the script and looks up at Mickey.
Mickey smiles and shrugs, not knowing what to say.
Holly, thrilled with Mickey's overwhelming response, stands up, her hand on her head.
Unable to contain herself, she begins to walk up and down the room, holding her script.
The camera follows her; Mickey is now offscreen.
Trees line the sidewalk.
Holly and Mickey emerge from the door and walk up the street, revealing a whole row of similar apartment buildings.
They pass a few other people as they walk.
The film then moves to the outside of a charming glass and stained wood caffe.
Through the window, Holly and Mickey can be seen having lunch.
Holly is talking animatedly; Mickey takes a sip of coffee.
Some people pass by.
Next, the film cuts to an almost isolated path in Central Park, complete, with old-fashioned streetlamps and scattered leaves.
Holly and Mickey stroll into view, deep in conversation.
The film abruptly cuts to Mickey's flashback, a visual counterpoint to the story he is telling Holly.
A close-up of a nervous, perspiring, and panting Mickey alone in his apartment appears on the screen as his voice is heard.
Mickey raises the barrel of a rifle to his forehead.
He shuts his eyes tightly.
The camera moves past the desperate Mickey to a mirror on the wall behind him.
The mirror shatters.
Mickey, holding the rifle, is seen running over to the shattered mirror.
Mickey runs offscreen briefly to answer the door.
He returns onscreen, panting; he looks frantically once again around the living room.
Occasionally, he is obscured by a tree trunk on the opposite side of the street; a few taxis go by as he talks over the scene.
The movie cuts to the exterior of the Metro movie theater, with its smoked glass entrance doors and its Art Deco feel.
An old publicity photo hangs inside.
Mickey's reflection is seen at the almost-transparent doors, as well as the reflection of the street and various cars whizzing by.
His reflection walks towards the theater entrance; he continues his story.
Mickey walks into the movie house.
He is seen through the glass doors, which still reflect the street and traffic outside.
He makes his way through the lobby into the actual theater.
The film abruptly cuts to the theater's black-and-white screen, where the Marx Brothers, in Duck Soup, play the helmets of several soldiers standing in a line like a live xylophone.
The film cuts back to the black-and-white movie screen as Mickey continues to talk.
The movie cuts back to Mickey, sitting almost obscured in the dark theater.
As Mickey talks, the film cuts back to the antics of the Marx Brothers on the black-and-white theater screen.
The four brothers are now swaying and singing and strutting, their voices indistinct over Mickey's narration.
The film is back on Mickey's dark form in the audience.
As Mickey continues, the film cuts back to Duck Soup on the black-and-white screen.
The Marx Brothers are sitting on a judge's bench, playing banjos and singing with the other cast members.
They jump down from the bench, still singing.
The Marx Brothers kneel, strumming their banjos, and the movie cuts back to Central Park.
They pass some people, a cluster of buildings that look like castles, and the Manhattan skyline as seen through the trees, as the camera moves back, farther and farther away from them, showing a beautiful Central Park, frozen in time.
They stroll offscreen.
Mavis passes the table, licking some food off her hand.
Hannah, in the background, is busy by the stove.
As Mavis leaves the kitchen, Lee enters, carrying some empty glasses.
Norma walks over to a glass-doored cabinet and takes out a bottle of gin.
Norma unscrews the liquor bottle and pours some into her empty glass as Hannah stops her mashing, reacting.
The movie leaves the kitchen and cuts to the doorway between the dining room and the living room.
Two women stand by the partially set dining room table, chatting and arranging some plates, as Elliot strolls into view, sipping a drink.
He passes the women and walks through the doorway into the living room, nodding hello to a guest who is walking the other way.
He enters the living room, smiling.
It is crowded with guests; Hannah's children play in their midst.
One of Hannah's boys grabs Elliot's arm.
He stops at the doorway, looking at the crowd.
The camera shows his point of view: Guests stand in clusters, enjoying themselves; one woman chats with a little boy; another woman, carrying a drink, walks over to a group of other guests.
The film then cuts back briefly to Elliot, holding his drink and looking straight ahead, as it shows his point of view once more.
This time he sees a smiling Lee and Doug, talking animatedly; a few guests are seen in the background.
Lee and Doug kiss each other.
They continue talking.
As Lee takes a sip of her drink, the movie cuts back to Elliot, standing in the doorway and still staring straight ahead.
The camera moves in closer to his face as he talks over the scene.
The film quickly cuts to a brief look at Lee and Doug, still talking animatedly and smiling.
Lee gently pushes back Doug's hair.
The camera moves back to Elliot.
After pausing for a moment on Elliot's face, the film cuts to the foyer, where two boys and a girl gather by the door.
One boy opens it, revealing Holly.
She joyfully enters the apartment, greeting each child with an enthusiastic kiss.
Mickey continues to kiss Holly.
She responds, sighing and closing her eyes.
Mickey continues to kiss Holly's neck; he chuckles.
The mirror shows Mickey pulling away slightly, reacting.
They look at each other at arm's length, Holly grinning.
Mickey in shock, then embrace and kiss passionately, tighter and tighter, as the music swells.
Two Boy Scouts climb up the rocky base of the cliff.
The two boys head down the passageway.
It's dark, and the temperature drops several degrees.
The light of kerosene lanterns dances on the tunnel walls ahead.
The boys approach cautiously, careful to stay hidden.
This is what they see: FOUR MEN digging with shovels and pick-axes.
And the fourth man wears a LEATHER WAIST JACKET and BROWN FELT FEDORA HAT.
Roscoe rushes forward and gives Fedora the box.
Fedora steps toward a lantern resting on a rock.
Fedora puts the box on the rock next to the lantern.
Halfbreed pushes Roscoe as he jumps with excitement.
Rough Rider steps forward to look at the box as Fedora opens it.
Fedora takes a BEJEWELED CROSS from the box and holds it aloft.
Fedora's comrades practically salivate at the sight of it.
Indy takes off his hat and looks down at the off screen action.
Fedora continues to admire the Cross, then places it on the rock next to its box and the lantern.
Indy turns back to observe the men.
A look of resolve comes into Indy's expression, and he turns back toward Herman.
Instead, he watches in wide-eyed horror as a SNAKE SLITHERS ACROSS HIS LAP.
Indy matter-of-factly picks up the snake and tosses it aside.
Herman gasps.
Indy grabs Herman's scout scarf and pulls him closer.
Indy releases the scarf, gives Herman a pat and Herman dashes off.
Indy sees the Cross on the rock next to the lantern.
As the Robbers continue to search for additional valuables, Indy is able to work his way unseen to within arm's reach of the Cross.
Fedora looks over at the men digging in a hole b.g.
Indy picks up the Cross.
As Fedora stands watching the other men digging, Indy puts the Cross in his pants and begins to pull himself up a rope hanging nearby.
As he climbs, Indy's feet break a wooden beam, attracting the men's attention.
The three Robbers are so eager to get their hands on Indy, they almost knock each other over in the attempt.
Only Fedora is unperturbed.
He casts a disgusted glance in the direction of his fleeing companions -- then sets off after Indy.
Indy EMERGES from the darkness of the Pueblo into the brightness of day.
He hears RUNNING FOOTSTEPS BEHIND HIM and dashes off.
Rough Rider, Halfbreed, and Roscoe are quick to appear and run after him.
Indy jumps from one rock to another; the SCOUT TROOP HORSES are below.
Indy puts two fingers in his mouth and WHISTLES for his horse, who trots over.
Indy puts the Cross in his belt.
Indy PREPARES TO JUMP into the saddle.
he JUMPS.
But the horse moves exactly at the wrong moment and Indy lands flat on his feet in a standing position.
Indy stands up and successfully mounts his horse.
Fedora AND HIS MEN ARRIVE at the roof's edge in time to see Indy climb into the saddle and gallop off.
Fedora puts two fingers in his mouth and WHISTLES.
and a VINTAGE TRUCK AND AUTOMOBILE come ROARING OUT from behind the Pueblo (driven by two more gang members).
The passenger in the car.
His face is concealed by the hat's wide brim.
His arm is out the window, however, and we see an olive-colored hand protruding from the sleeve of an expensive white linen suit.
Indy SPURS his mount on to greater speeds but the autos not only keep pace with his horse.
Indy VEERS OFF in a new direction -- toward a RAILROAD TRACK.
The train is barreling down the track.
Indy rides up beside it.
he LEAPS FROM HORSE TO TRAIN.
He clings to the side of a BOXCAR, as Halfbreed and Rough Rider leap from the truck onto the train.
Halfbreed tries to grab Indy, but Indy leaps onto another boxcar.
Halfbreed runs after him but Indy leaps from the boxcar onto some covered boxes stacked on a flatcar.
Indy loses his balance but regains it.
With Halfbreed and Rough Rider still running after him, Indy enters the trap door of.
and finds himself CRAWLING on a CATWALK suspended from the car's ceiling.
Several feet below are NUMEROUS VATS containing all manner of reptiles: Alligators, crocodiles, giant lizards, etc.
Then, Halfbreed ENTERS through the trap door -- followed by Rough Rider.
Halfbreed grabs hold of Indy's feet, but Indy kicks at him and he loses his grasp.
Indy crawls away, toward an opening on the opposite side.
Halfbreed grabs at Indy's feet again; Indy rolls away and we SEE large bins of squirming snakes.
The combined weight of the three people is more than the catwalk was intended for, and the BOLTS BEGIN TO RIP FROM.
SEVERAL BOLTS TEAR FREE.
but it's Indy's end of the catwalk that DROPS DOWN.
He lands hard, with a SPLASH into a vat of water.
where he finds himself eye-to-eye with an ENORMOUS ANACONDA.
The head of this snake is so damn big, it looks more like a Tyrannosaurus Rex.
Roscoe APPEARS atop the reptile car and manages to grab Indy.
Indy kicks at him.
Roscoe grabs onto the side of the reptile car as Indy moves on to.
Indy climbs over canvas-covered circus equipment.
Roscoe follows, grabbing a long stick with a hook on it.
He reaches forward and trips Indy, who falls onto the roof of the rhino boxcar.
As a lamp falls from the ceiling with the impact of Indy's fall, hitting a HUGE BLACK RHINOCEROS.
The two struggle, rolling from side to side, coming perilously close to rolling right off the edge.
Things get even more serious when Roscoe PULLS A KNIFE.
Finally, he raises his head and THRUSTS HIS HORN THROUGH THE ROOF.
As the horn SMASHES through the wood only inches from Indy's head.
Indy and Roscoe stare at the horn in amazement as they continue to struggle.
SMASH! The horn comes up again -- RIGHT.
Indy kicks Roscoe away.
Roscoe rolls to the edge of the car but keeps from falling.
Indy flips over onto his stomach.
The WOODEN TRAP DOOR EXPLODES as a BULLET is FIRED from within.
The door is pushed open and Halfbreed and Rough Rider hurry out of the car.
Indy gets to his feet -- looks ahead -- sees a WATER TANK alongside the track directly up ahead.
In an instant, he calculates his approach -- times the distance -- and LEAPS for the tank's WATER SPOUT.
He catches it perfectly.
but his velocity causes the water spout to ROTATE A FULL DEGREES.
With Indy hanging on, feet kicking, the water spout deposits him back on the train, onto the ROOF OF A STOCKCAR, where he looks up to see Fedora walking toward him.
As Indy edges away from Fedora, a portion of the STOCKCAR'S ROOF COLLAPSES and Indy FALLS THROUGH into the car below.
Indy CRASHES down from above.
Dust rises.
The men, including Roscoe, pull Indy through the hole in the roof.
He stands to face them as Rough Rider points a gun in his direction.
Roscoe makes a grab for the Cross -- but Indy doesn't let go.
A tug-of-war ensues until a SNAKE WIGGLES OUT FROM INDY'S SHIRTSLEEVE and WRAPS AROUND Roscoe's hand.
Roscoe SCREAMS BLOODY MURDER -- releases his grip on the Cross and tries to shake off the snake.
He LEAPS ONTO THE NEXT CAR.
Indy swings down to the caboose.
He glances back at the men and quickly opens the door to the caboose, stepping inside.
Fedora puts out his arm, gesturing for the others not to follow Indy.
Which contains the circus MAGIC EQUIPMENT.
Indy rushes to the rear door of the caboose but can't open it.
He hears Fedora coming, and dives into a MAGIC BOX.
Fedora smiles confidently and advances toward the box.
The box unexpectedly collapses; all four sides flop away.
Fedora is mystified, frustrated and angered.
He rushes out onto the balcony and sees: Indy RUNNING along the tracks, turning up a street of modest clapboard houses.
Indy bursts through the front door holding the Cross in his hand.
A Husky BARKS as Indy runs past in search of his father.
Indy charges in.
The study is cluttered with books.
PROFESSOR Henry JONES is absorbed at his desk.
In fact, he is studying a very ancient parchment volume which lies open on the desk.
The page shows a beautifully illuminated picture of what might be a stained-glass window.
The sketch incorporates a series of Roman numerals.
The Professor is not just studying it, he is copying it into his own notebook.
We see his hand sketching; then, he holds up one finger.
The study door is just closing, Indy closing it behind him.
just as Herman comes through the front door, still playing the trumpet.
Indy reaches for the trumpet, pulling it from Herman's mouth.
Herman continues to spit -- right into Indy's face.
Herman means the SHERIFF, who now enters the house.
Indy shows the Cross, more or less handing it to the Sheriff to make his point.
The Sheriff takes it casually.
Fedora enters the house, followed by Roscoe, Rough Rider and Halfbreed.
He politely removes his hat and holds it in his hand.
The Sheriff and Fedora are in Cahoots The Sheriff hands the Cross to Fedora.
Roscoe reaches in and takes it from Fedora, then runs out the door.
Fedora remains behind for a moment.
He turns and speaks to Indy in an ironic man-to-man way.
He holds the hat by the crown, and puts it on Indy's head, a show of respect and admiration for the boy.
The hat blocks Indy's face.
The hat brim fills the screen.
As the brim tilts up, WE SEE the face of FULL GROWN INDIANA JONES.
he's punched in the face while his arms are pinned behind his back.
THE MAN IN THE PANAMA HAT (years older now) removes the CROSS OF CORONADO from Indy's belt.
It's NIGHT.
RAIN POURS down.
We're in the middle of a violent STORM AT SEA.
Thirty-foot waves crash across the deck.
The TWO PORTUGUESE SAILORS (who have Indy's arms pinned behind his back) propel Indy across the deck toward the rail.
As they pass a BUNDLE OF FUEL DRUMS, Indy uses the Two Sailors as leverage to KICK UP HIS FEET and break open the CLAMP on the metal bands that hold the drums together.
Indy jabs his elbows into the stomachs of the startled Sailors and rushes toward the Man In The Panama Hat.
Panama Hat sees Indy coming and hurries toward the ladder that leads up to the bridge.
Indy withstands the force of waves crashing on the deck and makes his way to where Panama Hat is climbing the ladder.
Indy takes the cross back from Panama Hat.
A sailor delivers a powerful blow to Indy's face, sending the cross flying out of his grip and skittering across the deck.
Indy grabs a crowbar and fends off two sailors who attack him from the sides.
Indy sees that the Cross is about to be swept overboard.
He lunges for it.
He SNATCHES UP the Cross only to be knocked down to the deck by a giant wave.
He struggles to his feet, managing to avoid the giant fuel drums sliding across the deck around him.
SEVERAL MORE DRUMS come Indy's way.
Indy turns around and pummels two sailors with one punch.
Indy sees a large Stevedore's hook above him and he climbs up on crates to reach it.
He grabs a hold of the hook and uses it to swing all the way across the deck, narrowly avoiding a huge wave behind him.
He jumps into the rollicking ocean, still holding onto the cross.
On the ship, a giant fuel drum rolls wildly, falling directly onto a crate of TNT.
The crate explodes, causing the entire ship to blow, sending an enormous orange fireball into the sky.
As bits of debris fall from the sky like rain.
Indy BOBS UP in the water amid the debris, holding the Cross in his hand.
He grabs for something to keep him afloat.
Students walk along brick, tree-lined paths.
Dressed in professorial tweeds, stands before his class.
Laughter.
MARCUS BRODY approaches Indy's classroom.
He peers through the window in the door to see Indy completing his lecture.
Brody enters the lecture hall and stands at the rear of the room.
Indy stands at his desk as students begin to disperse.
A pretty coed puts a note on the desk.
Brody approaches as the last of the students leaves the lecture hall.
Indy removes the cloth-wrapped Cross from his desk.
He places it on the desk and takes off his glasses as Brody examines the Cross.
Indy gathers up his books and makes his way toward the door.
He turns back toward Brody, now holding the Cross.
Indy takes the term papers then turns to enter his PRIVATE OFFICE.
Indy slips into his.
Where he goes to his desk and finds a thick envelope with a foreign postmark on it.
Then, Indy stuffs his mail into his coat pockets, goes to the WINDOW, slides it open and STEPS OUT INTO THE GARDEN.
Indy escapes through the garden.
Indy walks briskly toward the street; smiling, enjoying his freedom.
As he arrives at the curb, a LONG BLACK PACKARD SEDAN pulls up before him.
THREE MEN step out of the sedan.
Indy is ushered into a large Art Deco apartment and left alone.
Numerous museum-quality artifacts are displayed around the room.
After a moment, WALTER DONOVAN enters from across the room.
During the brief time that the door is open, we HEAR a COCKTAIL PARTY going on in the next room: VOICES and SOFT.
Donovan strides across the room toward Indy.
Dressed in a tuxedo, he exudes both confidence and power.
He shakes hands with Indy.
Donovan goes to a table where an object is wrapped in cloth.
He throws back the cloth revealing a flat STONE TABLET -- about two feet square, inscribed with letters and symbols.
He puts on his glasses to make a closer examination.
Donovan pours champagne into several fluted glasses as Indy reads.
Suddenly Indy stops and looks up at Donovan with a startled expression.
Indy rubs his chin with a dubious expression as he takes the glass of champagne Donovan now offers him.
Indy stiffens slightly at the mention of his father, nods.
The door opens and MRS. DONOVAN steps into the room.
She's a matronly woman in an expensive evening gown.
He leans over and kisses her cheek.
Mrs. Donovan sighs to herself and returns to the party.
Indy, meanwhile, has turned his attention back to the Grail Tablet, obviously hooked by its archaeological promise.
He moistens his finger with champagne and rubs it over the Tablet.
Donovan steps up next to Indy.
Indy has to shake his head at Donovan's apparent lack of judgment.
Donovan produces an ANCIENT LEATHER-BOUND VOLUME with very brittle pages.
Indy views the manuscript with considerable interest.
A FORD COUPE speeds down the tree-lined street.
The Ford coupe pulls up in front of the house.
Indy climbs from the car and hurries up the walkway.
Brody is a step behind.
They climb the porch and notice that the front door is ajar.
They exchange a quick look of concern as they enter.
Indy approaches the half-open front door.
He pushes open the door.
He enters the house and calls out.
Indy opens one half of the curtains dividing the hall from the sitting room.
We see the place has been ransacked.
Brody sees Indy's face and opens the other half.
They walk into the room.
Brody picks up some mail from Henry's cluttered desk.
Indy turns and sees the pile of torn papers and envelopes.
He immediately empties his pockets of his own mail taken earlier in the day from his college office and finds the envelope with the Venice postmark.
Indy uncovers a small book.
It looks like a JOURNAL or DIARY.
Indy flips through it: Page after page of handwritten notes and drawings.
Brody glances at it with great curiosity.
As Indy asks the question, he turns to a PAINTING on the wall: A depiction of Christ on the Cross, his blood being captured in a golden chalice.
A SECOND PAINTING on the wall shows Eleventh Century Crusaders plummeting to their deaths over a high cliff.
One Crusader, however, floats safely in midair because he holds the Grail in his hands.
A LIMO is parked beside a PRIVATE AIRLINER that bears the DONOVAN CORPORATE LOGO.
Brody peers inside to Donovan and Indy.
Indy opens the Grail Diary and thoughtfully turns through the pages.
SUPERIMPOSED over a MAP that traces a course from New York City to Venice, Italy.
Indy and Brody disembark from the Water Bus onto the Boat Landing as other Gondoliers steer their boats in the water.
Suddenly a WOMAN comes up to him.
Attractive features.
Blonde hair.
Eyes that are bright and intelligent.
She looks at him with an appraising expression that is brazenly flirtatious.
Indy grins, enjoying the repartee.
The Woman turns to Brody, who tips his hat.
The Woman, DR. ELSA SCHNEIDER, extends her hand to Brody.
Indy's grin fades.
Brody registers a look of surprise.
Indy, Brody and Elsa walk along the narrow canal, lined with buildings on either side.
As they cross over a bridge to the opposite side of the canal, Indy steals a flower from a street vendor.
He holds it out to Elsa.
She hands a slip of paper to Indy.
Indy extends the scrap of paper to Brody.
Elsa leads Indy and Brody into the large piazza.
People walk about and sit at tables in front of a large building.
They have arrived at the front steps of the library.
Elsa leads the way inside.
Indy, Brody and Elsa enter, their heels CLICKING across the marble floor.
We notice, along with Indy and Brody, that the library contains many stained-glass windows.
She indicates FOUR HUGE MARBLE COLUMNS that go from floor to ceiling.
Indy glances at the Columns, then notices a stained-glass Window that depicts a Knight of the Crusades.
Indy lingers for a moment in front of the window.
The minute Elsa is out of earshot.
Indy whips out the Grail Diary and opens it to the sketch he noticed in the airplane.
Brody glances at the Diary, then at the window -- noticing that the Roman numerals in question have been worked into the window's design.
He's looking in five directions at once.
His eyes moving across the walls and ceilings -- charged with the thrill of discovery.
Indy's eyes travel up one of the four huge marble columns.
Indy looks again to the stained-glass window.
He points.
Indy has discovered that each Column is numbered with a Roman Numeral.
Indy hurries away toward Column VII.
He points again to the stained-glass window.
He looks down to the scrap of paper in his hands.
Indy walks past aisles of book-lined shelves.
He stops, turns, then looks down.
He climbs a spiral staircase leading up to a LOFT and looks down at Brody and Elsa.
Indy rushes down the staircase and goes to the CENTER TILE where the two sides of the X intersect.
He blows dust away from the tile and tries to pry it up, but cannot.
Indy rushes past Brody to a cordon held in place by a brass stand underneath the stained-glass window.
Indy raises the brass stand and timing his actions, hits the tile precisely as the Librarian stamps a book.
The Librarian regards the stamper curiously.
Indy continues to pound at the tile as the Librarian resumes his stamping, still puzzled by the SOUND ECHOING through the library.
Finally Indy breaks the tile.
As he bends to remove the pieces of broken tile, a TWO-FOOT SQUARE HOLE IS REVEALED.
Indy is impressed with Elsa's spirit, and cooperates agreeably -- holding her by the hands and lowering her into the hole.
When her feet finally touch ground below, Indy releases his grip on her and slips the Grail Diary to Brody.
Then Indy disappears into the hole.
Indy jumps down a steep step.
He reaches back to help Elsa.
Indy and Elsa glance around.
Dark and dank.
She removes a cigarette lighter with a unique ivory four-leaf clover design.
Indy and Elsa inspect markings carved onto the walls.
Indy takes the lighter from her and lights their way down a dark passageway.
THREE MEN carrying guns make their way down the spiral staircase toward an unsuspecting Brody.
One of the Men, KAZIM, raises his gun and brings it down hard on Brody's head.
Indy only has to give it a quick glance to know.
Indy holds the lighter up and he and Elsa enter another dark passageway.
Indy steps to the wall and runs his hand over the stone.
Elsa now holds the lighter as Indy rams his shoulder into the wall.
The wall collapses on impact and Indy falls through into another room.
As Indy falls through the hole in the wall onto rocks surrounded by bubbling, green, slimy liquid.
More skeletons surround him, resting in their carved niches.
Elsa holds the lighter as she peers in at him through the hole in the wall.
Indy reaches up and tears a piece of cloth from one of the skeletons, which breaks apart and falls into the oil-slick water.
Indy uses the scrap of cloth and a bone to fashion a crude torch, which he then dips into the oily water.
Using the cloth-wrapped bone torch to guide their way, Indy and Elsa come upon a NARROW PASSAGEWAY.
The water is knee- deep and TEEMING WITH RATS.
Thousands of them crawling on one another's backs.
Thrashing in the water.
Elsa gasps as the rats scamper between her legs.
Indy moves forward through the rat-infested water as Elsa follows, still gasping in horror.
Suddenly he slips into a hole.
Recovering his balance, he reaches out to Elsa.
She gasps once again, terrified.
Indy lifts her and carries Elsa as he moves forward.
Kazim and his men step to the opening Indy made earlier and shine their flashlights through to the rat-infested water.
More rat-infested water as Elsa, now walking again, follows Indy through another passageway lined with skulls and bones.
Indy reaches for a wall to steady himself and inadvertently grabs a skeleton.
A bone comes loose in his hand as rats scurry about and leap at him from all directions.
He takes a moment to compose himself, then steps across the water to Elsa's side.
He steps into the water, then reaches up to help Elsa do the same.
The chamber is flooded with black, briny water.
They move toward the altar.
Indy and Elsa begin to inspect the ornately carved COFFINS like the scholars of antiquity that they are.
These are big oak caskets held together by straps of etched brass.
One coffin is elevated above the others.
Together they begin to push on the lid -- STRAINING and GROANING until it slides away and BANGS against the stone platform.
Lie the DECOMPOSED REMAINS of a KNIGHT IN ARMOR.
Indy and Elsa look in.
Indy unfolds a piece of paper and holds it over the shield.
The missing portion of the rubbing is completed by the shield.
Indy laughs.
As it lights a match.
Dropping the lighted match into the oil-slick water.
Elsa holds the torch.
Indy looks around.
And then he sees the GLOW OF FIRELIGHT dancing across the Catacomb walls.
This is followed by THOUSANDS OF RATS FLEEING from around the corner of the Narrow Passageway, STAMPEDING toward Elsa and Indy -- SHRIEKING and SQUEALING as they approach.
The rats literally wash over them -- like a rodent tidal wave -- in their efforts to escape.
Elsa SCREAMS. 
Indy braces his back against the altar and TOPPLES THE COFFIN with his feet.
It CRASHES against the stone platform and SPLASHES into the water.
They jump into the water beside the bobbing, overturned coffin.
Indy literally DUNKS her and pushes her underneath.
Elsa surfaces into the air pocket created by the coffin, SPUTTERING and SPITTING.
Now Indy pops up into the air pocket.
He looks at Elsa -- they are both soaking wet.
Indy disappears under the water and swims out from under the coffin.
Indy swims, looking for an escape route.
The rats are beginning to force their way inside, swimming through the water and climbing on Elsa, who squirms and screams in terror.
Indy pops back up through the water.
Elsa groans.
They take a deep breath and both dive under the water.
The perfect picture postcard -- St. Mark's Square and the Grand Canal beyond.
Cafe customers are startled to see Indy and Elsa climb out of the sewer, wet and smelly.
Indy looks around at the postcard-perfect setting and smiles.
Indy's delight, however, is short-lived since Kazim and TWO OTHER TURKISH AGENTS are running towards them with drawn guns.
He grabs Elsa by the hand and the two of them run down the dock and LEAP INTO A MOTORBOAT.
Indy fires up the engine and pulls away from the dock.
but not before a TURKISH AGENT JUMPS in with him.
Elsa grabs the wheel and begins to steer the boat while Indy and the Turk trade punches.
Kazim and his men rush to TWO MORE SPEEDBOATS tied to the dock.
They chase after Indy.
Indy grapples with the Turkish Agent.
As Indy grips his arms, we SEE a GUN in the Agent's hand.
It FIRES.
As Indy fights with the Turk, he becomes aware of the Speedboats behind him and two enormous Freighters ahead of him, joined together by two giant ropes.
Indy, having gained the advantage, leans on top of the Turkish Agent.
Indy finally delivers the punch that sends the Turkish Agent flying overboard.
Turning, Indy sees that Elsa has committed the speedboat to a course BETWEEN the two Freighters, now being pushed even closer together by a Tugboat.
It's purely academic at this point since the hulls of the two Freighters loom up on either side of them like cavern walls.
One Enemy Speedboat chases Indy between the two Freighters.
It's a race for daylight as the two Freighters drift ever closer to one another.
Indy's Speedboat just manages to squeeze through the gap.
But the Enemy Speedboat EXPLODES as it is crushed between the two Freighters, FLYING INTO THE AIR and SPLASHING back down into the water.
Spin their boat around in a sharp half-circle to see KAZIM'S SPEEDBOAT appear racing toward them.
He stands in the moving boat, FIRING A MACHINE GUN at Indy and Elsa.
The two boats race across the water nearly side-by-side.
A CHATTERING MACHINE GUN from Kazim's boat SPLINTERS the wood of Indy's boat, until finally the rear of the boat CATCHES.
The machine gun runs out of ammunition.
Kazim puts it down and takes control of the wheel from one of the Turkish Agents in the boat with him.
As Indy's boat drifts toward the GIANT, TURNING PROPELLERS at the STERN of ANOTHER STEAMER, Kazim's boat draws up alongside and hits them.
Indy steps into Kazim's boat.
He knocks one of the Turkish Agents to the deck, then turns his attention to Kazim.
The two men trade punches as the boat spins helplessly in the churning water.
Indy kicks Kazim in the face, knocking him into the water, then pulls him back into the boat, now being SUCKED THROUGH THE CHURNING WATER toward the Steamer's giant propeller blades.
By now half the boat has been chopped up into matchwood and the blades are getting closer.
The wind of the blades is on their necks.
Indy grabs Kazim just in time and jumps into the motorboat, driven by Elsa, which gets alongside in the nick of time.
Kazim pulls back his shirt to reveal a birthmark.
or is it a tattoo? Whatever it is, it's a cruciform sword; a Christian cross which tapers down, like the blades of a broadsword.
The boat is close to the edge of the canal.
Kazim steps ashore.
Kazim walks away.
CLOSE ON THE WATER-SOAKED PAPER IMPRESSION: The rubbing taken from the shield of the Grail Knight.
Brody is giving it careful study while he dabs the lump on the back of his head with an ice pack.
Indy, wearing a bathrobe, leans over to study the impression.
Brody lowers the ice pack from his head and looks at Indy.
Brody picks up the Grail Diary.
It covers two pages of the Diary.
Brody's finger moves across it.
Indy closes the Grail Diary and puts it into the pocket of his robe.
Indy opens the door.
His bedroom has been ransacked.
the mattress on the floor, the drawers turned out.
Indy approaches another door (Elsa's bedroom) and knocks.
He goes in.
He finds that Elsa's bedroom is in a similar ransacked state to his own.
He is worried for her, knocks and calls out.
He steps into the room and knocks upon the bathroom door.
He opens the bathroom door, peering inside.
Elsa is standing before a mirror, wearing a silk bathrobe.
She gasps, startled, as Indy enters.
He retreats back into her bedroom as she reaches up to turn off a record player sitting on a ledge above the bathtub.
Elsa joins Indy, waiting in the ransacked room.
She looks around in shock.
She looks to Indy, who pulls the Grail Diary from his pocket.
She comes closer to him.
She stomps her foot angrily.
She starts to walk away but Indy grabs her.
He pulls her to him and kisses her.
Now Elsa reaches for Indy and kisses him.
But he embraces her, and Elsa begins to nibble at his ear.
Indy smiles slyly as they fall to the bed.
A GONDOLIER SINGS as he steers his gondola carrying two passengers past Indy's window.
Indy lies on top of Elsa, kissing her.
He stops for a moment as he hears the Gondolier SINGING.
Elsa reaches up and pulls him back down to her.
A Mercedes-Benz glides through the sharp mountain curves.
This is SUPERIMPOSED OVER A MAP that charts their course from Venice across Austria toward Salzburg.
Storm clouds darken the skies.
THUNDER EXPLODES in the distance; lightning flashes.
The Mercedes-Benz drives into the courtyard of the formidable stone castle.
Indy reaches into the back seat and retrieves his bullwhip.
He glances up to the beret Elsa is wearing.
She reaches up and adjusts it.
A BUTLER walks to the door and opens it to reveal Indy and Elsa standing outside in the rain.
She now wears Indy's fedora; Indy is wearing Elsa's beret.
Indy, followed by Elsa, steps inside, shaking the water from his overcoat.
As Indy says this he pushes his way past the startled Butler, pulling a handkerchief from the man's pocket.
Elsa follows, taking off her coat.
Indy SNEEZES HARD.
Indy dabs at his nose with the handkerchief as Elsa looks on in amused amazement.
The Butler falls against a wall tapestry, sliding down to the floor, out cold.
Indy and Elsa move cautiously and quietly down the wide, vaulted hallway.
Indy and Elsa creep past a room full of NAZI SOLDIERS working around a large table with a map atop it.
Indy reacts to the sight of them.
Indy and Elsa continue down the hallway.
Indy carries a gun in his hand and his whip hangs from his belt.
He steps to a closed door and listens.
Indy points out an ELECTRICAL WIRE.
He studies the situation for a moment, then decides to enter one of the other doors.
He knocks at the door -- there is no response.
He looks back at Elsa and enters.
The room is dark and empty.
Indy throws open the window shutters and looks out.
RAIN comes down in sheets.
There is a wide ledge beneath each window -- but below that is a SHEER DROP.
He leans out the window and wraps his bullwhip around some wires that protrude from the castle wall above the next window.
Indy SWINGS from the window to the stone gargoyle.
A PAIR OF WOODEN SHUTTERS seals the window.
Indy takes hold of the bullwhip with both hands, pushes off with his feet.
swings toward the shuttered window with his feet extended.
CRASHING THROUGH THE WOODEN SHUTTERS as a CLAP OF THUNDER disguises the noise.
Indy CRASHES THROUGH SHUTTERS AND GLASS into the room.
Stunned, Indy sinks to one knee.
and Indy's father, PROFESSOR Henry JONES, steps out of the shadows.
Indy gets to his feet.
Now they look at each other.
Indy and Henry press themselves against the wall, Henry still holding the broken vase in his hand.
Indy steps to the window and looks down.
Henry moves to a lamp, holding the vase under the light for a closer look.
Henry is all about the broken vase which he still holds in his hand.
Henry has clearly been concentrating entirely on the vase.
he is examining the broken end carefully.
Henry throws the vase against the wall where it SHATTERS.
Indy steps to the door and stands, listening.
Henry slides his umbrella through the straps of his bag.
Indy nods.
Henry laughs genuinely, believing himself to be laughing at the expense of the S.S. Officer.
He's so pissed off, he literally RIPS A MACHINE GUN from the hands of one of the startled soldiers.
He turns and sprays the room with machine gun fire, cutting all three Nazis to ribbons and blowing them backwards across the room.
Henry looks shocked and horrified.
Indy grabs him and pushes him ahead.
Indy leads Henry down the hallway as he searches for Elsa.
He opens a door and enters.
Indy and Henry rush back into the room where Elsa had been left, only to find: A NAZI COLONEL HOLDING ELSA HOSTAGE.
He looks at Elsa, then back to his father.
Everyone is yelling at once.
Vogel jams the barrel of the Luger painfully into Elsa's neck.
Elsa SCREAMS. 
He drops the machine gun to the table and it slides across, SHATTERING GLASS.
Vogel releases his grip on Elsa and shoves her toward Indy.
She is propelled directly into his arms.
He holds her tightly.
Her hand slips into his coat pocket and removes the Grail Diary.
She steps back next to Vogel.
Indy is stunned.
A large baronial room decorated with ancient tapestries and suits of armor.
Indy and Henry are ushered in, hands tied behind back, accompanied by Vogel and Elsa and TWO NAZI GUARDS.
Elsa crosses the room toward a high-backed chair facing the fireplace.
Indy and Henry do not have the advantage of seeing who is sitting in that chair.
They only see a HAND REACH OUT.
He looks at Henry with surprise.
The MAN IN THE CHAIR gets to his feet and turns, revealing himself to be Walter Donovan.
Donovan smiles benignly and flips through the Grail Diary.
Elsa rushes to Donovan's side.
She takes the Grail Diary from him.
Elsa takes a look for herself -- then glances up at Indy.
Brody disembarks from the train along with the other PASSENGERS, a cross-section of ARABS and TUSKS.
A Man in the crowd holds out a cup of water to Brody.
Brody continues through the crowd past various STREET VENDORS.
A Woman holds a chicken out to him.
The Woman walks away, leaving Brody alone in the crowd.
Sallah shoulders his way through the mob toward Brody.
They meet and hug, then begin to walk.
Brody searches in his coat pocket for the map as a SINISTER MAN approaches.
Brody puts the map back in his pocket.
The Sinister Man clicks his heels and bows quickly.
Brody takes off his hat.
The man turns and joins a SECOND MAN.
Brody and Sallah follow them.
The Second Man overhears Sallah.
He and his companion turn quickly.
Sallah puts Brody's luggage down and glances at Brody.
Sallah pats his clothing, searching for his papers.
Sallah laughs and pulls out a newspaper.
Brody looks confused.
Sallah shows the newspaper to the Second Man.
Sallah puts the newspaper in front of the Second Man's face, then punches him through the newspaper.
Donovan leads Vogel out.
The Nazi Guards follow.
Once they are gone, Elsa turns to Indy.
She runs her hand down the side of his face.
Indy and Henry are still tied back-to-back of course.
Elsa bends to speak quietly into Indy's ear which is near enough to Henry's ear.
She smiles and kisses Indy passionately.
Henry glances back and looks rather disappointed.
Vogel appears to remind Elsa of her appointment.
Elsa exits.
Vogel stays behind for another moment.
Vogel punches Indy in the jaw.
A hard and vicious jab that snaps Indy's head around.
Indy and Henry are pulling at the ropes with great urgency.
Henry is able to wiggle his hand towards Indy's coat pocket.
Indy squirms his body around towards Henry's hand.
Henry's fingers open the lighter and ignite the flame.
Henry yelps as the cigarette lighter burns his hand.
He drops the lighter to the floor.
Henry kicks at the lighter, trying to reach it, but cannot.
The rug starts to burn.
Finally they turn their heads in the same direction.
Indy struggles to free his hands.
His foot kicks out and accidentally hits a metal grill that operates a Secret Door.
Where a NAZI RADIOMAN wearing headphones sits at an elaborate panel of dials, switches and meters, and a WOMAN stands over a map plotting coordinates.
Their backs are turned to Indy and Henry.
inside the fireplace, still tied back-to-back.
Indy's foot hits the grill again.
FOUR NAZI RADIOMEN and the Woman are still hard at work with controls and coordinates.
Suddenly the Woman looks up and spots Henry and Indy.
She screams.
Indy finally breaks free.
All four Radiomen now have their guns drawn.
They activate the lever and begin to rotate through the Secret Door.
The Radiomen appear in the fireplace on the other side -- but there is NO SIGN OF Indy and Henry.
The Radiomen move cautiously toward the flame, shielding their faces with one hand, holding their guns with the other.
They've hidden themselves UP THE CHIMNEY.
And now they DROP DOWN, BEHIND the Radiomen.
One of the Radiomen grabs Indy by the neck.
As they struggle they fall against the rotating wall and disappear into the next room, leaving a frightened Henry behind.
Henry presses against the wall, which rotates again.
As he disappears into the next room, a DEAD NAZI RADIOMAN swivels into the room.
The other Nazis rush forward to him.
Indy picks up a BUST OF HITLER and uses it to jam the rotating wall in place, sealing the Nazis inside the burning room.
Vogel strides purposefully down the hallway.
He BARKS an order, and TWO MORE NAZIS fall into step with him.
Indy grabs his whip, his leather sack and Henry's case from a table.
He hands the case to Henry and they begin to run.
Indy and Henry step into an empty room.
Henry looks horrified by what he's been forced to do as Indy searches frantically for an exit.
Indy begins to run his hands over the walls -- frantic.
Henry sits on a chair which tips back, hitting the wall behind it.
The floor at Indy's feet suddenly begins DROPPING AWAY! Indy grabs a railing to keep from falling, but loses his grip and plunges through the opening which has formed a SPIRAL STAIRCASE.
He rolls down the stairs.
Henry follows Indy down the staircase.
The stairway deposits Indy and Henry into an enormous WATERY CAVERN beneath the mountain on which the castle was built.
A full-scale Nazi BOAT DOCK has been built inside the cavern.
We see MOTORBOATS, GUNBOATS, SUPPLY BOATS, etc.
Indy boards one of the motorboats and STARTS THE MOTOR.
Henry tosses his case at Indy who catches it and angrily throws it back to his father.
Indy moves back to the dock and pushes the boat away.
Henry looks confused.
Vogel and the Nazi Soldiers enter the room and spot the spiral staircase leading below.
They quickly descend the stairs.
As Vogel and the Nazi Soldiers rush to the dock.
Vogel sees that a motorboat is missing.
He orders the Nazi Soldiers into a boat.
The motorbike skids to a stop.
Henry slaps him across the face.
Arrows point in opposite directions to VENICE and BERLIN.
The CAMERA MOVES IN on the portion of the sign reading BERLIN.
A Nazi Rally -- a book-burning is in process.
The mound of burning books is ten feet tall and growing by the minute as College Students and Nazi Brownshirts continually toss more books onto the fire.
Flags, banners and standards displaying the swastika are waved rhythmically from side to side in a motion that echoes the mounting frenzy of the enormous crowd.
Indy and Henry walk toward the Square.
Indy wears the uniform of a Nazi Soldier.
He is now buttoning up the tunic -- which happens to be several sizes too big.
Where high-ranking Officers of the Third Reich stand flanking ADOLF HITLER as they oversee the rally.
Elsa is walking away in an open area, background of torches, vehicles, Nazi Officers.
one of whom is now none other than Indy, coming up to her before she knows he is there.
Indy pushes Elsa against a column and begins to search her clothing for the Diary.
He pulls the book from Elsa's pocket.
His hands fly to her neck.
Indy releases her and backs away.
She looks at him with a lover's pain.
He moves over to Henry.
They move off and almost run headlong into Hitler and his entire entourage coming down from the Podium.
kids push their autograph books for Hitler's signature.
Hitler pauses to sign them.
Hitler looks Indy's way.
They make eye contact.
Hitler breaks the spell by taking the Grail Diary from him, opens it to the first page and signs his autograph.
He hands it back and moves on.
Indy's motorcycle pulls up to the main terminal.
A Plainclothes Agent distributes leaflets bearing HENRY'S PICTURE to Nazi Soldiers inside the terminal.
Henry leans in a doorway reading a newspaper as Indy enters down the stairs and taps Henry's shoulder.
They begin to walk toward the boarding gates.
Henry looks over his newspaper at Indy.
But Indy looks out the window and is suddenly concerned.
Rushing across the tarmac toward the Zeppelin.
Henry looks confused.
Everyone else with a ticket quickly produces it and waves it in Indy's face.
Vogel gets to his knees as the huge Zeppelin rises into the sky above him, revealing an airplane attached to the belly of the airship.
Vogel shakes his fist at the rising Zeppelin.
Henry opens his Diary and begins to thumb through it.
Henry looks up from his Diary.
He closes the Diary and leans back in his seat.
Indy stutters uncomfortably as Henry stares at him, waiting for a response.
Sunlight falls across the table from the window.
The bar of sunlight turns like the hand of a clock over the tabletop across the drinks.
We see Indy puzzled.
Indy and his father emerge from the hatchway into the belly of the Zeppelin.
The Zeppelin's elaborate metal framework is exposed.
Indy and Henry hurry down the catwalk until arriving at a PAIR OF DOORWAYS framed into the Zeppelin's outer skin.
We see plenty of blue sky and white clouds.
We also see a small BI-PLANE that is suspended from the Zeppelin by a HOOK & CRANE DEVICE.
Indy climbs into the cockpit of the Biplane as Henry takes the tail gunner's seat.
Then they both become aware of a STRANGE SOUND in the skies behind them.
TWO MESSERSCHMIDT FIGHTER BOMBERS streak out of the clouds and race across the sky.
Shrink in their seats as the MESSERSCHMIDTS (going three times as fast as they are) SCREAM past on either side.
Henry turns and grips the MOUNTED MACHINE GUN with a perplexed expression.
Henry pulls out his watch.
Indy uses his arm to demonstrate that he's referring to a direction and not a time.
Henry does -- and the EXPLODING GUN nearly shakes him out of his seat.
Henry has one of the Messerschmidts in his sight.
He pulls back on the trigger -- RATTA-A-TAT-TAT! RATTA-A-TAT-TAT! The Messerschmidt banks to the left, but Henry keeps it in his gun sight.
Henry swings the gun around, inadvertently.
Indy looks back at the missing tail section, then at his father.
The plane begins to go down.
Indy struggles to control its descent.
The wheels of the plane touch down.
OUT OF CONTROL, the PLANE SKIDS and CRASHES first into a corral of goats and then into the farmhouse beyond sending a cloud of dust into the air.
As Indy pulls himself from the cockpit.
Guns BLAZING.
As BULLETS EXPLODE around them, Indy and Henry jump over a stone barricade.
Henry, frightened, grabs at Indy.
An OLD MAN kneels at his car repairing a rear tire.
The Man turns to the wheel, the hubcap in his hands.
Suddenly the wheel moves forward, startling the Old Man.
Indy has the throttle down, both hands tightly gripping the steering wheel.
Henry is a very nervous passenger.
Indy sees a LOW-FLYING MESSERSCHMIDT coming up behind him in the SIDE MIRROR.
As the Messerschmidt ROARS by overhead, BULLETS EXPLODE around them, narrowly missing the car.
The car races toward a TUNNEL that cuts through a steep.
The Messerschmidt bears down on Indy's car, machine guns.
The car ENTERS the tunnel.
The Messerschmidt cannot pull up in time.
It SLAMS into the MOUTH OF THE TUNNEL, SHEARING OFF its WINGS.
The FLAMING FUSELAGE continues to ROCKET through the tunnel like a bullet down the muzzle of a gun.
SPARKS fly as its belly SCRAPES against the pavement and the sides of the tunnel.
Indy and Henry look over their shoulders to see this wingless BALL OF FIRE gaining on them; about to overtake them.
The car exits the tunnel at top speed and veers off the road.
The flaming Messerschmidt fuselage shoots past and EXPLODES in the middle of the road.
As the car emerges safely from the flames, Henry wipes the sweat from his brow.
Henry looks out the windshield and sees the second Messerschmidt SCREAMING out of the sky toward them.
The MESSERSCHMIDT drops its single UNDER-FUSELAGE BOMB.
It EXPLODES in the road directly ahead of the car, missing it by only several feet.
FALLS INTO THE HOLE made by the bomb.
Indy climbs out of the car, still in the bomb crater.
He turns back to Henry.
Indy and Henry run down the mountainside.
Indy and Henry run to the shoreline.
Indy reaches for his gun, tucked in his pants.
He opens the chamber -- the GUN.
Swings around and is coming in for another pass.
Henry hands his case to Indy.
Holding his umbrella, Henry suddenly spins around and runs screaming and shouting into A FLOCK OF SEA GULLS.
The SEA GULLS take to the wing in flight.
Thousands of them.
MASSACRE! Sea gulls are shredded by the Messerschmidt's whirling propeller blades into a FEATHERY WHITE PUREE that SPLATTERS against the cockpit and CLOGS THE.
ENGINE SPUTTERS.
The Messerschmidt falls from the skies and EXPLODES in an OFF CAMERA SOUND EFFECT.
Indy stands as before -- stunned -- a statue.
Henry walks back to Indy.
Indy wears a proud expression as he watches Henry walk down the beach.
The Sultan is seated in his royal chair, flanked by Walter Donovan and Vogel and surrounded by his minions.
Donovan holds the missing Grail Diary pages.
Donovan and the Sultan walk together through an archway.
The Sultan gets up from his chair and walks toward the trunk.
He goes right past it and begins to inspect the Nazi staff car parked nearby.
The Sultan points to the engine under the hood.
and we see that it is Kazim, the spy at the court.
Elsa is revealed coming down the stairs toward Donovan and Vogel.
Sallah drives his car through the crowded streets, Indy beside him and Henry in the back seat.
Sallah waves his arms and shouts to a CAMEL HERDER.
Henry removes his hat and hits Indy with it.
Elsa and Donovan's party -- consisting of a SUPPLY TRUCK, TANK AND VARIOUS OTHER VEHICLES -- all moving along through the ramble of this box canyon.
Elsa, Donovan and Vogel travel in the open car.
The TANK is a vintage World War I model with enormous treads.
The Turkish soldiers wear native dress and carry both carbines and sabers.
Brody sits alongside Elsa in the rear of the car carrying Donovan.
Henry and Sallah are at Indy's side as he views Donovan's party in the distance.
Parked nearby is a CAR containing all of their supplies.
Then Donovan notices a reflection from the hills.
At that moment the tank FIRES A SHELL in their direction.
It WHISTLES overhead and BLOWS UP THE PARKED CAR.
Indy, Henry and Sallah cover their heads as automobile fragments rain down upon them.
Kazim peers over a rock, pointing his rifle at the group below.
BULLETS EXPLODE off the vehicles and cliff.
Donovan and Elsa duck.
A NAZI SOLDIER falls from the tank as BULLETS EXPLODE around him.
KAZIM'S MEN, BRETHREN OF THE CRUCIFORM SWORD, continue to FIRE.
Elsa and Donovan take cover beside the parked car.
Indy and Henry, followed by Sallah, take cover behind a rock to watch Kazim's Men and the Nazi Troops exchanging fire below them.
The BRETHREN are firing at the Donovan party and are being fired on by the Donovan party.
TWO NAZI SOLDIERS throw HAND GRENADES into the cliffs.
They EXPLODE, killing one of Kazim's Brethren.
The battle continues -- a fierce exchange of GUNSHOTS, GRENADES and MACHINE GUN FIRE with losses on both sides.
Crouch behind a rock watching as men on both sides of the battle run amongst camels and horses.
They look down at Kazim who lies mortally wounded on the ground at their feet.
Elsa looks saddened.
Kazim dies.
Leaps atop a TURKISH SOLDIER on horseback, pulling the man and the horse to the ground.
A SECOND TURK comes to assist his comrade; Indy mounts the horse, knocking both Turks to the ground.
Brody has been left alone in the tank.
Henry climbs down into the tank and taps Brody on the shoulder, startling him.
Now Brody tugs his ears, flaps his arms and touches his head.
They exchange a handshake.
The Nazi Soldiers point their guns at Henry and Brody.
Vogel removes a glove and slaps Henry with it.
He slaps Henry again.
Another slap.
Vogel reaches out to slap Henry yet again, but Henry grabs his arm, stopping him.
Donovan appears at the turret cover.
Indy and Sallah charge forward leading their horses and camels.
Then Vogel commands the Tank Driver to give chase.
Vogel shouts to the Tank Driver.
Henry and Brody still held at gunpoint by the Nazi Soldier.
The Nazi Soldier swings his fist, knocking Henry off his seat.
Smoke pours from the top of the tank as the turret pops open.
Vogel emerges and aims his gun at Indy.
Indy and Vogel EXCHANGE SHOTS as Indy chases the tank on his horse.
Indy pulls the trigger again -- his gun is empty! Indy immediately takes the high trail.
Now Indy is above the tank twelve feet on a paralleling trail.
He moves out of the saddle and leaps from the speeding horse onto the trundling tank.
Hate-staring at Indy.
Hate-staring back at Vogel.
Suddenly, from nowhere a German soldier flies INTO FRAME, tackling Indy.
One of the two troop carriers is paralleling the tank and like pirates boarding a galleon, Nazi Soldiers leap over the treads and are swarming all over Indy.
Indy presses the Luger against his assailant and forces the Nazi to squeeze off a shot into himself.
The bullet not only passes through the Nazi, but passes through two other Nazis standing directly behind him on the crowded tank top and three bodies fall away, leaving Indy to stare at the gun in disbelief.
Another Soldier leaps from the truck onto the tank and raises his knife as he grabs Indy.
They struggle and fall.
Indy sits up to see Vogel standing over him.
Vogel wraps a chain around Indy's neck.
Indy appears at the entrance, the chain still wrapped about his neck and held by Vogel.
Vogel pulls Indy from the tank entrance, yanking on the chain wrapped around his neck.
A NAZI SOLDIER approaches.
Indy hits him, knocking him onto the tank tread.
The Nazi Soldier screams as he is dragged under the rolling tank.
Now Indy and Vogel struggle with one another, the chain still wrapped around Indy's neck.
We see Indy and Vogel struggling atop the tank.
Indy lifts his feet, lunging toward the periscope and pulling Vogel with him.
Indy's face is pressed up against the lens of the periscope.
The Nazi Soldier looking through the periscope pulls away from it, smiles, then turns back to it.
Indy's face, still pressed against the lens.
Vogel pulls Indy from the periscope.
The Nazi Soldier pulls away from the periscope again.
A troop truck pulls near the tank.
Henry fires the TANK GUN at the troop truck.
SOLDIERS FLY INTO THE AIR.
The TROOP TRUCK flips over and EXPLODES.
The EXPLOSION knocks Indy off the tank and onto the tread.
He grabs onto the shredded gun protruding from the side of the tank.
Vogel looks down at Indy and smiles smugly.
The tank is approaching a cliff wall.
As Indy tries to secure footing, Vogel steps on his hands.
Brody looks at Henry.
Vogel now swings a shovel at Indy, smashing at his hands.
Brody climbs up out of the tank, followed by Henry.
A NAZI SOLDIER appears and pulls Henry down.
Vogel raises the shovel above his head and brings it crashing down on Indy, still hanging from the protruding gun.
Indy loses his grip and now hangs from the gun suspended only by the strap of his leather pouch.
He screams as the gun scrapes against the cliff wall, sending stones tumbling down over him.
The Nazi Soldier knocks Henry into a pile of boxes, then punches him in the face.
As the Soldier raises the gun to Henry's face, Brody hits him over the head with a canister.
The Soldier falls, discharging the gun into the air.
The BULLET RICOCHETS around the tank, past the Tank Driver who is manipulating levers at the control panel.
SPARKS FLY; then the BULLET PINGS AGAINST THE WINDOW and RICOCHETS ONCE MORE, this time passing THROUGH THE TANK DRIVER'S HAT.
Blood flows from under the hat as the Tank Driver slumps forward, his body depressing the levers.
Indy still hangs from the strap of his leather pouch as the tank swerves, barely missing the rocks and causing Vogel to fall.
Indy finally manages to pull himself atop the tank once more where he punches Vogel over the side, then peers down to Henry, still inside the tank.
Indy pulls Henry and Brody from the tank.
Vogel pulls himself back atop the tank armed again with the shovel which he swings at Indy, who ducks and grabs Vogel's arm.
As Indy winds up to punch Vogel he catches Brody in the face on the backswing, then completes the movement and knocks Vogel down.
Vogel's hat sails in and falls to the floor.
Before Indy can answer, Vogel is up and swinging with the shovel.
Indy ducks but the shovel catches Henry sending him over the side and onto the moving tread.
Indy grabs his whip, knocking Vogel aside.
As Henry speeds toward the front of the tank to certain doom, Indy, with lightning speed, whips out his bullwhip, wrapping the end of the whip around Henry's right ankle.
Sallah draws his horse next to the treads.
He tips his fez to Henry.
Vogel now punches Indy in the back and grabs him around the neck.
Still, Indy refuses to let go of the whip.
Sallah reaches out to Henry.
Sallah manages to hold onto Henry as he brings his horse to a stop just at the cliff's edge.
Indy finally frees himself of Vogel's grasp, twisting his arm painfully away from Indy's neck, then landing a hard blow to Vogel's head.
Looks down at the fast-approaching cliff, his face filled with horror.
We see his HAT BLOW OFF and sail over the cliff's edge.
The tank trundles over the cliff and PLUMMETS TO THE BOTTOM.
Henry, Brody and Sallah look down at the flaming wreckage of the tank.
looking dazed and bewildered, Indy STAGGERS UP BEHIND THEM.
He joins the others at the edge of the cliff, looking down at the wreckage below with a bewildered expression.
Finally, Henry becomes aware of his presence.
He just looks at Indy, overcome with emotion.
Finally, he throws his arms around him.
And he becomes aware of his father's embrace.
He hugs his father back.
Brody and Sallah are moved by this sudden reconciliation.
Henry pats Indy on the back and Indy collapses, sitting hard on the rocky cliff edge.
Unaware, Henry, Sallah and Brody start to walk away.
Henry turns and walks toward the horse with Brody and Sallah.
Suddenly the FEDORA, borne on the wind, BLOWS INTO SCENE and lands at Indy's feet.
Donovan peers through binoculars to see the CANYON OF THE CRESCENT MOON.
He lowers the binoculars and turns to Elsa.
Now Elsa peers through the binoculars.
Indy, Henry, Sallah and Brody ride into the canyon.
Now we turn a corner and they see the hidden city.
Its spectacular Grecian facade is carved directly into the rock.
Indy, Sallah, Henry and Brody creep forward to see.
He's walking slowly.
The Turk stands alone in the center of the Temple.
GIANT COLUMNS define the Temple's perimeter.
Watch him from a safe distance.
Is about to approach the spot where a TURKISH SOLDIER LIES DEAD.
We don't notice it right away, but the dead soldier has been DECAPITATED.
The Turk stops -- only one step away from the beheaded soldier.
Takes one more step -- a fatal step, it turns out.
Indy, Henry, Brody and Sallah react to the sight.
She looks at him, horrified.
TWO NAZI SOLDIERS force another Turk forward.
Everyone turns to discover Indy and his party surrounded by NAZI SOLDIERS.
Indy's group are relieved of their guns.
Indy, Henry, Brody and Sallah are brought forward by the Nazi Soldiers.
Indy laughs.
Then Donovan shifts his aim, just a bit, and SHOOTS Henry.
The bullet enters his side below the ribs.
Henry collapses.
Blood flowing from the wound.
Brody and Sallah rush to his assistance.
Indy spins toward Donovan with murder in his eyes.
Donovan points the gun at him.
The two decapitated men lie a few yards in front of him.
He walks to the entranceway, flanked by two stone lions.
We get silent reaction shots -- Elsa -- Sallah -- Brody -- Donovan -- registering their different emotions Indy proceeds forward.
His hands open the Grail Diary.
Indy takes a few steps forward.
Indy stops.
He is about to reach the spot where two men have just died.
Indy looks at Henry.
Indy takes a step forward through the cobwebs.
The cobwebs begin to move.
Instinctively he ROLLS FORWARD on the ground out of harm's way and looks up.
From his new position he is able to see what is causing all the trouble: A RAZOR SHARP TRIPLE.
Indy gets cautiously to his feet.
Now he sees the pendulum has been guarding a SMALL CORRIDOR which turns a corner to the left fifty yards ahead.
Wooden wheels turn -- the mechanism controlling the spinning blades.
Indy loops a rope around the wheels, jamming the mechanism and stopping the blades in mid-swipe.
Brody and Sallah smile, relieved.
Henry shakes his head.
Holding the Grail Diary, reading once again, his fedora now covered in cobwebs.
Indy pulls away some cobwebs to reveal a cobblestone path.
Each cobble is engraved with a letter.
Lifts his head painfully.
Still lies in Sallah's arms.
Indy takes a step and immediately a stone breaks away and Indy falls up to his hip -- his leg stuck through the hold where the stone once was.
Who grunts as he pulls himself from the hole, the Grail Diary in his hand.
Now we see each letter on the stones as Indy carefully walks forward.
Donovan and Elsa follow in his footsteps.
Indy sighs with relief and steps forward.
Indy stands in a small opening, just small enough for his shoulders to squeeze through and beyond that a foot drop to the rocks below and feet across, nothing but a rough, stony cliff wall.
He can see nowhere to cross.
He looks again to the Grail Diary.
Indy looks around and then he notices that inscribed into the rock above his head is the head of a lion.
Calls to his son.
We see him leap into space.
We see that he is in midair.
Indy looks around and down and now he figures it out.
Ingeniously, the First Crusaders have painted a pathway to align with the rocks feet below.
It is a perfect forced perspective image of the rocks below with lines from a hundred feet continuing six feet below his sight line where his feet are stepping.
It's painted to blend in with the rocks below.
Highly evolved camouflage.
in perfect alignment with everything we see below.
Indy throws some dirt on the bridge and he crosses it like the first Crusader from the painting over Henry's desk.
Indy crawls through a small opening in the side of the cliff and enters a Temple.
A vast array of chalices is displayed on the altar of this small Temple.
Many sizes, many shapes, some gold, some silver, but they all glitter and shine.
And then he realizes that a man is praying at the altar! He has his back turned to Indy.
but he is dressed as what he is! A GRAIL KNIGHT.
But we can't see the Grail Knight's face.
When the Grail Knight sees Indy he gets wearily to his feet and, surprisingly, prepares to give combat.
taking up his two-handed broadsword.
he comes at Indy, attempting to swing the huge, heavy sword but finding the effort almost too much.
Indy dodges two or three clumsy swings of the sword, making no attempt to fight back.
until the Knight, exhausted, drops the sword and collapses.
Indy approaches him and raises the visor and we see that the Knight is a very ancient man.
The Grail Knight reaches forward and fingers Indy's clothing.
The Grail Knight holds his sword out to Indy.
At that moment Donovan and Elsa appear.
Donovan turns to face the display of cups.
Elsa and Indy exchange looks.
Elsa chooses a cup -- a solid gold, emerald encrusted goblet.
Donovan instantly takes it from her.
Donovan rushes to the well and fills the goblet with water.
Donovan drinks from the goblet.
Then, Donovan's entire body starts to convulse.
His face contorts in agony.
He grabs his stomach and turns toward Elsa.
He starts to age -- fast! His hair grows long and gray and brittle.
Elsa gasps and screams.
His skin turns brown and leathery and stretches across his bones until it splits.
His skeletal hands reach for Elsa's throat, choking her.
Indy rushes forward and pushes Donovan away.
As he falls he BODY BREAKS INTO FLAMES, then SHATTERS AGAINST THE WALL.
Indy studies the array of chalices.
Indy picks up another cup, a simple earthenware jug.
He and Elsa exchange a look.
Indy goes to the well and fills the earthenware jug with water, then pauses.
Indy brings the jug to his lips and takes several large swallows.
Indy and Elsa come forward with the Grail.
The TWO NAZI SOLDIERS are over-awed by the possessors of the Grail.
Indy kneels by Henry's side and tilts his head forward and holds the Grail to his lips.
Henry is too weak to even open his eyes.
Henry swallows some of the water.
Much of it runs down the corners of his mouth.
Finally Indy pours the water over the wound and everyone watches in astonishment as the wound and the blood stain disappear before their eyes.
The color returns to Henry's face.
Henry's eyes open.
The first thing he sees is the Grail and they light up.
Then they shift to Indy's face -- and they light up even more.
NAZI SOLDIERS run forward.
The Nazi Soldiers drop their weapons at their feet and raise their arms in surrender.
Steps forward and picks up the Grail.
She turns to Indy, her face alight with possession of the Grail.
Elsa steps onto the edge of the Great Seal.
A RUMBLING SOUND IS HEARD and the ground roars and shifts.
Dirt falls from the ceiling of the cavern.
Elsa falls on the Great Seal.
The Grail bounces away from her grasp.
She reaches for it and the ground beneath her begins to SPLIT OPEN.
Elsa slips into the crevasse.
As her hands lose their grip, Indy just manages to grab one of them, he himself sliding forward across the slanted floor.
With her free hand, Elsa is trying to get the Grail.
Indy can't save her unless she gives him her free hand.
Her hand begins to slip from Indy's grasp.
Now the ledge Indy lies upon begins to break apart.
Henry grabs one of his hands as Indy struggles to reach the Grail with the other.
Indy abandons the Grail and grabs onto Henry with both hands.
Henry pulls him up to safety.
Looks through the falling debris to Indy and Henry.
Sallah and Brody rush from the crumbling Temple.
The Grail Knight raises his arm to Henry.
Indy and Henry down the passageway just as a huge stone column tumbles down upon the spot where they stood.
The Grail Knight lowers his arm as he watches them leave.
Indy, Henry, Sallah and Brody emerge from the Mountain Temple through the Grecian Facade.
From within the Mountain Temple, the ROAR OF WALLS CAVING IN IS HEARD.
A cloud of dust and smoke billows out from the entrance.
Henry turns to Indy.
Henry and Indy mount their horses.
Henry turns back to his son.
A moment passes as they all ready their mounts and Sallah continues to laugh at Indy.
He squirts some wiper fluid onto the glass, which clears it up a bit, but now he sees something worse up ahead.
It's a grouping of headlights, eight of them, all pointed at him, sealing off the road.
He bites his lip and calls over his shoulder, to the back of the van.
He speaks in Spanish, which is subtitled.
the Agents fling open the rear doors, revealing a DOZEN FRIGHTENED MEXICANS, hopeful immigrants without official permission.
Agent Janus looks at the Driver, who's now held by two other Agents, and shakes his head.
He stops in the middle of his sentence, as another car is approaching, fast, its engine WHINING as it barrels down the road toward them.
The new car pulls a hard right, goes off the road, spins around the INS cars, and SQUEALS to a sideways halt, silhouetted in front of their headlights.
It's a boxy, black Ford LTD.
TWO MEN get out, dressed in plain black suits, crisp white shirts, simple black ties, shiny black shoes.
KAY, fiftyish, is the apotheosis of world-weary; his partner, DEE, mid-sixties, is just weary.
They approach the INS agents.
Kay and Dee move past him and approach the row of nervous immigrants.
He walks down the row, studying the faces, greeting each one cheerily in Spanish.
Silence on the road.
The others pile into the rear and they tear out of there.
Kay and Dee escort their captive across the road and over a small rise, leaving the stunned INS agents standing alone in the roadway.
He pulls out a small laser device, which he ZIPS neatly down the front of the man's clothes.
The man's clothes fall to the ground, revealing what he really is underneath -- A SCALY SPACE BASTARD, about four-and-a-half feet tall, with a snouth, snail-like tentacles, and independently moving eyes on stalks at the top of his head.
It's propped up by a stick, like a puppet, and it continues to make expressions as he holds it.
MIKEY replies -- an unfathomable combination of GRUNTS, SQUEAKS, and saliva.
Mikey makes a lame SQUEAK.
From behind Mikey, they hear a terrified GASP.
Kay and Dee both look over quickly.
One of the alien's eyes, on a tall stalk, whips around too.
All three of them see AGENT JANUS, standing just over the rise, staring in frozen amazement.
Janus freezes, terrified.
Dee struggles to roll over and change the controls on his gun, which fell out of his hand as he hit the ground.
The other INS Agents burst over the rise, SHOUTING questions.
From over the rise, car engines WHINE in the distance and headlights start to flash around them.
Kay reaches into his pocket and pulls out a tubular metallic device the size of a pocket recorder.
Behind him, six more MEN IN BLACK, all wearing black suits and sunglasses, come over the hill.
Kay barks a few orders to them.
He holds up the neuralyzer.
The Agents peer closely at it.
Kay reaches into his pocket, puts on his own black sunglasses -- -- and pushes a button on the side of the neuralyzer.
A BLINDING FLASH a tenth of a second long sears the Agents' eyeballs.
They stare blankly.
Kay gestures behind him, where the Men in Black are now using fire extinguishers to douse the flames they themselves started.
The Agents look around, confused.
Dee has moved away from them all and is sitting on a rock, staring up at the night sky, his sunglasses dangling idly from one hand.
Kay steps away from the group and finds him.
He sits down next to him.
He looks up, at the million stars shining overhead.
Kay pulls his neuralyzer from his pocket and looks down at it.
These belong to JAMES EDWARDS, a NYC COP in undercover street clothes.
In the BACKGROUND, about ten feet behind, are two other cops, trying to keep up.
Edwards is a lot faster, though.
A pair of feet running.
They belong to a man we will know as the PERPETRATOR.
A new set of feet come into frame.
As they run down the bridge that traverses Park Avenue in the low Forties.
The Perp veers to the left and,
seemingly oblivious to the fact that it's a thirty-foot drop, he hurdles the guard rail, and drops to Forty-first Street below.
EDWARDS is surprised by this maneuver, but doesn't waste a second.
A DOUBLE-DECKER BUS, one of those cheesy sightseers that hold up midtown traffic.
He, too, hurdles the guard rail and lands on.
The bus, of course, is completely filled with JAPANESE TOURISTS, and it seems like every single one of them has a video camera.
EDWARDS pushes through the crowd.
He pulls out his badge that hangs from a chain under his shirt.
Edwards is about to slap the cuffs on him, when the Perp blinks.
Edwards is thrown for a moment, which is all the time the Perp needs to pull out.
His WEAPON, which is the strangest looking gun you've ever seen.
Reacting quickly, Edwards bats it out of the Perp's hand.
THE WEAPON smashes into the stone wall surrounding Central Park and SHATTERS into a million pieces.
WHOMP! The Perp kicks him in the nuts, then scrambles to his feet and takes off again.
Edwards staggers after him, in pain.
The Perp leaps over a moving car, towards the GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM.
Edwards tries to follow, but a bus pulls in front of him.
After it passes, the Perp is gone.
The Perp flies past him, having leapt from twenty feet down to the top of the Guggenheim.
On the roof, the PERP reaches the top, climbs over the edge, and CRUNCHES to the gravel surface.
He runs to the front door of the Museum, shoots it open and runs inside.
He runs from the rotunda up the grand ramp of the Guggenheim.
He leaps to his feet and races over to a door.
It's locked.
He tugs on another.
It's locked too.
He scrambles up and over the ledge.
He pulls on a third.
It swings open -- -- revealing EDWARDS on the other side, breathing hard.
He aims his weapon at the Perp.
He decides.
-- and he falls, SCREAMING, to his death.
The silhouette of Edgar leaps to its feet, races to the door, and throws it open.
Edgar is everything his voice led us to expect -- a nasty, bug-eyed redneck carrying a twelve-gauge shotgun.
His mouth agape, he walks across the yard and stares at the hulking shell that was his truck.
The skeleton of the truck is still there, but there's a huge, smoldering hole in it, a hole that goes at least ten feet down into the ground.
A woman sneaks into the room.
DOCTOR LAUREL WEAVER, thirtyish, dark-haired, dark-eyed, general aura of darkness around her, stands above him.
Laurel looks like she was just dragged out of bed (which she was) and saw a spaceman (which she did).
She looks over her shoulder once, then whispers to him.
Edwards twists in his chair, to get a better look.
All he sees is Laurel, facing whoever it is in the hallway.
The Someone says something else and Laurel steps forward, now also out of Edwards's line of vision.
Edwards stretches even further in his seat, when there is a blinding FLASH from the corridor.
Really curious now, he starts to get up -- -- when KAY steps into the room and closes the door behind him.
He crosses to the door.
Edwards stops.
At that point, the INSPECTOR sticks his head in, smiles and gives Edwards the thumbs up.
Edwards looks at the Inspector, then at Kay.
Kay opens the door and gets out of the car.
They get out of the car.
Edwards follows.
Edwards looks around.
Sees they're standing in front of a PAWN SHOP.
He casually brushes some Rolexes off the counter.
At the sound of Kay's voice, Jeebs suddenly pales, a look of fear coming over his face.
He pulls his own gun and aims it at Jeebs' forehead.
Edwards, seeing that Kay is getting somewhere, joins in the routine.
KA-BOOM! Kay blows Jeebs' head off and Jeebs' body collapses to the floor.
Edwards is shocked.
Edwards pulls his own weapon and points it at Kay's head.
Edwards whirls around to see Jeebs' BODY, growing another head.
Only takes four or five seconds.
Kay raises the weapon again, threatening.
Jeebs nods, point taken.
Edwards, still dazed by Jeebs' regrown head, glances down at all the weapons.
Kay leaves.
-- the flash dims on EDWARDS and KAY, sitting at a table in a Chinese restaurant.
Edwards takes the remaining chair.
Zed continues addressing the Recruits.
They all turn and regard Edwards a little smugly.
Edwards's hand is, indeed, up.
Then one of the young recruits eagerly raises his hand.
Zed calls on him.
Edwards tries to stifle a laugh, but can't.
Zed looks into the gallery.
Most obvious in the frozen tableau of creatures is a lunging, snarling beast, which has three bullet holes in its chest.
Next to it is a massively deformed humanoid creature with a large hook for a head, which also has three holes in it.
In the back corner of the gallery, there is a single bullet hole in a pretty eight-year-old girl.
Zed sighs.
Sideways glances from the other recruits.
ZED and KAY stand behind smoked glass, staring at the RECRUITS, who are still in the shooting gallery, waiting for a decision.
Zed turns and walks away.
Kay stares through the glass, at EDWARDS, who stands alone on one side of the room, apart from the rest of the group.
Zed reappears on the other side of the glass, coming through a door and into the shooting gallery.
The RECRUITS follow ZED out of the shooting gallery and into a long hallway.
Zed motions them off to the left.
EDWARDS is the last one out of the room, but he stops as he steps into the hallway.
KAY is outside the door, waiting for him.
Edwards recognizes him from last night.
As they pass an alcove, Edwards notices the six other Recruits, who have been herded into a corner.
Zed, addressing them, pulls a neuralyzer from his pocket.
He holds a neuralyzer up in front of them, and the Recruits stare obediently at it as Zed slips on a pair of black sunglasses.
ALIEN SHAPES are visible within.
DEE and ZED are there, much younger.
Yet another photograph, this one showing a young KAY, in a shirt and tie, holding a bouquet of flowers, staring at the open door of the landed flying saucer.
Kay steers Edwards to the right, down another corridor, just as long as the first.
Another picture, this one of the World's Fair grounds, still under construction.
Giant models of rockets mark the Fair's theme of space travel; most prominent in the construction are two tall towers, with the flying saucers now mounted at the top of each.
One of the Worm Aliens answers him in their native tongue and points to the counter.
The elevator doors.
-- slide open on Men in Black headquarters.
Edwards just stares, fascinated, but Kay grabs him by the arm and hurries him along.
Inside, there are piles of sophisticated-looking devices stacked on shelves and tabletops.
Edwards picks up a small yellow ball from one of the shelves.
They leave the room.
ON THE MAIN FLOOR, they walk briskly across the room, reaching a giant screen on the far wall.
The screen displays a map of the world on which thousands of tiny lights blink in all parts of the globe, log lines of data flashing next to them.
ON THE SCREENS, we see live images of aliens.
Bony fingers.
Edwards, stunned, looks at Kay as boots her onto the screen: Mean face, cat glasses.
ZED, who was standing up close to the screen, walks over to Edwards, sizing him up.
ZED'S VOICE comes over.
EDWARDS reaches out and opens a white locker, revealing a BLACK SUIT hung from a hanger in the middle.
On the bottom, a pair of SHINY BLACK SHOES.
KAY is at a computer terminal.
On screen are Edwards's birth certificate, driver's license, social security card, library card, everything.
ZED'S VOICE continues.
EDWARDS stands in a cramped white booth.
He holds both his hands on a TEN-FINGERED KEYPAD, pressing down hard.
The pad glows red, a SEARING sound comes from his hands, and he grimaces as more lasers instantly and (not at all) painlessly change his fingerprints.
One by one, KAY deletes Edwards's identity cards.
On the computer screen is Edwards' full name -- JAMES DARREL EDWARDS III.
Kay punches a couple keys, and the cursor begins to sweep from right to left, starting to eliminate the rightmost letters of Edwards's name.
More letters are eliminated from his name.
A tie pushed up.
Looking slick and handsome in his extremely sharp suit, JAMES D EDWARDS III -- or, rather, JAY -- steps into the doorway from the locker room.
He slips on the sunglasses.
The Older Man (ROSENBERG), is carrying a cat and an ornate rosewood jewelry box.
Carefully, he sets the box down and lovingly places the cat on top of it while he locks all five locks on the door to his distinctive shop.
A flap of skin, now getting gray and crusty with age, hangs off EDGAR's neck as he sits in the front of his Orkin van.
Across the street, Edgar sees a short, older man come out of one of the jewelry shops on Thirty-Fifth Street.
That finished, he picks up the cat, then the box, then waddles off down the street, one under each arm.
Edgar drops the truck into gear and follows him, slowly, trolling along behind him.
Zed's office is a circular, windowed room elevated above the main floor of MIB headquarters.
JAY and KAY sit across the desk from Zed.
There are five video monitors on a wall behind Zed's desk, and on each monitor is another Man in Black, in different parts of the world, the city name and a clock ticking in a corner of the image.
While Zed talks, he goes through paperwork on his desk.
Next to him, his computer screen BEEPS importantly.
Zed looks over at it.
JAY and KAY come out the front of MIB headquarters.
ROSENBERG, the jewelry store owner, steps out of a cab in the meat-packing district, still carrying the ornate box and his beloved cat.
A moment later, the Orkin van pulls to a stop across the street.
He heads into Leshko's, a Russian diner.
ROSENBERG comes into the tiny restaurant, squinting in the relative darkness.
At a table in the middle, he sees a man eating alone -- an enormous, dignified, yet profoundly strange-looking man in his mid fifties.
Rosenberg walks carefully over to the table, but does not sit down.
He steps forward, to face Rosenberg, who sets the ornate box on the table.
Rosenberg and the Arquillian stare at each other for a long moment -- -- and then embrace each other.
The embrace has an odd, formal quality to it, like mafiosi coming to a sitdown.
They hold on, long and hard, and both seemed choked with emotion.
Finally, they break apart and take their seats.
They speak in a bizarre alien tongue, which is subtitled.
The Driver hands over some documents.
The guy digs out two other cards and hands those over.
MRS. REDGICK is in front, MOANING in pain, holding her swollen belly.
Kay straightens up, fast.
Mrs. Redgick SCREAMS again.
Redgick gets out of the car, worried.
Suddenly a TENTACLE whips out from between Mrs. 
Redgick's legs, CRACKS the whip once, and wraps around the door post, grabbing hold.
Now a SECOND TENTACLE whips out, but this one wraps around Jay's neck and pulls tight.
Jay looks down at the creature COOING and nestling on his chest.
It vomits on him.
Back in the car, JAY wipes the last of the puke off his suit while KAY starts up the car.
CLOSE ON on various supermarket tabloids as a hand flips through them.
Kay is furiously searching through the tabs; Jay is standing behind him, a little embarrassed.
Kay pulls a copy of the Weekly World News from the stand and gives the guy a buck.
He SMACKS the paper down on the hood in front of Jay, the pages turned open to a headline in typeface so large one would think it reserved for the Second Coming.
The LTD pulls to a stop at the end of the driveway that leads to Beatrice's farmhouse, where the alien ship landed.
The wrecked pickup truck is still there.
JAY and KAY get out, very undercover cop.
Jay starts up the driveway.
Kay pulls a black card from his wallet and extends it to her as she draws close.
Beatrice looks much better than the last time we saw her -- more nicely dressed, a touch of makeup, a smile on her face.
In the living room, JAY sips some of her lemonade and winces.
A little GIGGLE escapes her at the thought.
KAY is in the hole where the ship landed, investigating.
He holds a pocket spectral analyzer over a section of scorched earth.
Above him, JAY leans over, staring down.
Kay looks up at him.
The analyzer shifts colors.
Red.
Then Yellow.
Purple.
And then green.
It's DR. 
LAUREL WEAVER, the woman who tried to speak to Jay before.
Laurel signs his clipboard.
Laurel gives him a dirty look, but he laughs and leaves.
She goes over to the stretcher and bends down, petting Rosenberg's cat gently.
She looks up.
Jay and Kay are standing there.
She gets up and goes to the Arquillian's body, which is still out on a table under the lights.
She throws back a sheet, revealing (to them only, not us) the fully dissected Arquillian.
He begins to examine it.
Jay and Laurel cross the room, to where ROSENBERG's corpse lies out on another gurney.
She SNAPS one of her rubber gloves and reaches down (out of frame), sinking her hands into the body as she moves things aside.
Just by the look on Jay's face, one can imagine how disgusting it is.
From the other side of the room, Kay CLEARS HIS THROAT.
He walks across the morgue to Kay, who is still examining the Arquillian.
Jay turns and races across the room to rejoin her.
Jay leans down.
There is strange stitching around the base of Rosenberg's ear.
He reaches out, touches the ear, then he actually turns it.
With a soft.
-- it pulls away from the head.
Though not quite dead, the Tiny Little Green Man is gravely wounded.
Like a latch.
Jay pulls again, and Rosenberg's entire face PUSHES OUT with a mechanical HUM, then HINGES OPEN, the whole face rotating out away from the rest of the artificial skull.
He staggers up out of a small control room inside Rosenberg's head, with gearshifts and viewing screens all around the inside of the skull.
The Baltian nods vigorously.
The Baltian nods again, falls, and dies.
Kay and Jay are not paying attention to Laurel.
FLASH! Without even looking at her, Kay whips out his neuralyzer and blanks her out.
The Orkin van is parked in an alleyway somewhere downtown.
From inside, throaty WAILS of frustration can be heard.
Inside the van, the ornate rosewood box is now battered and scarred, its various locks holding tight against EDGAR's repeated attempts to claw his way into it.
He BELLOWS in rage and hurls the box against the side of the van, where it finally CRACKS a hinge.
Inside, there are dozens of precious, glittering diamonds, which he promptly tosses aside as worthless.
But the rest of the box is empty.
He points up at the screen with a laser pencil.
He indicates the three stars that make up the belt.
Elizabeth looks up, as if she knows she's being watched, but she's just looking at the sky, wondering how many stars'll be out tonight.
It's more than Kay can bear.
He reaches out and flicks a switch.
Kay clicks off the picture of her.
The monitor goes blank, except for a data screen.
Jay drags a chair and sits down.
Jay and Kay cross back toward the LAD (Landed Alien Display), where each of the thousand or so Aliens who live on earth are represented by a flickering LIGHT.
Some lights are starting to go out.
Kay looks to his partner, then to the screen.
Kay and Jay walk away.
Edgar reaches into the front seat of the van and pulls out his twelve gauge.
He points it at the tow truck Driver.
The tow truck driver looks at him with disdain, and pulling back his shirt reveals a mean-looking gun.
There are several PHOTOS OF A CAT on the wall.
There is also a pile of BEJEWELED CAT COLLARS.
Jay's attention is broken by something through the window.
Outside, lumbering straight for the store, is EDGAR.
And then Jay FIRES, shattering the storefront window, and BLOWING UP A CAR on the street.
The blast hurls him up and back a good ten feet, SLAMMING him into the wall with tremendous force.
Edgar turns and rushes away down the street as Jay picks himself up.
Jay leaps through the broken storefront window and after Edgar.
Kay gestures to a group of ONLOOKERS, drawn by the curious blasts from the store.
There's smoking rubble everywhere.
After gesturing to the back of the Orkin van, where Edgar's spaceship is neatly stowed, Kay pulls out his cell phone.
ZED is in his office.
Zed looks down to the vast floor below and sees the four worm guys with suitcases walking across the floor.
He looks up at the screen.
EDGAR gets out and walks away, fast, CURSING under his breath.
He rants, livid, thinking hard.
As he passes a newsstand, he grabs the NEWS VENDOR by the collar.
A voice answers him, but not the Vendor's.
Jay looks down.
The voice is coming from the dog.
Kay approaches, motioning to Jay to make sure no one hears.
Kay grabs Frank.
He yelps like, well, a dog.
PASSERBYS glare at Kay, who appears to be seriously mistreating this poor little dog.
Jay tries to explain.
Kay shakes Frank the Pug, trying to force an answer.
Kay shakes Frank the Pug once more.
Kay lets go of Frank, turns to Jay, who is lost in thought.
Jay suddenly notices Frank the Pug bark at a cat farther down the sidewalk.
In the morgue, LAUREL is working at a desk when suddenly ROSENBERG'S CAT leaps up onto it from nowhere, the way cats do, landing right in the middle of the file she's studying.
Laurel jumps.
She pets the cat.
Laurel turns the name tag to face her.
As it is written across the collar of the cat.
Laurel notices something dangling from the cat's collar -- a CIRCULAR ICON of a strange and beautiful metal.
The center is some sort of hardened, translucent material, light green in color.
She peers into the jewel, and her face washes over with amazement.
It's as if Laurel is sucked into another universe.
Her face goes beatifically blank as she sails through a massive starfield, millions of stars, billions of green, verdant planets, all racing by her at the speed of light.
From out in the corridor, a bell rings -- DING, DING.
Suddenly, quick as a gunfighter, Tony SNAPS the fly swatter down on a BUZZING FLY.
Edgar winces.
WHACK! Tony flicks the fly swatter again, sending another bug to meet its maker.
Edgar grits his teeth.
WHACK! Still another fly goes down.
Tony looks down, to where Edgar's hands rest on the counter.
Half a dozen cockroaches stream out of his sleeve.
And he continues into the morgue, leaving Kay waiting outside.
LAUREL SLAMS into a wall on one side of the morgue, thrown there by EDGAR.
He leans in, close, furious.
He grabs her roughly and drags her across the morgue, toward the equipment she pointed to.
As they draw close, ORION the cat bolts from underneath it, races between their legs, and leapfrogs over several small cabinets, landing on top of a very tall one with only six inches clearance between it and the ceiling.
Edgar just starts to turn when they hear the BELL and a VOICE from the corridor outside.
Jay looks at her.
Jay just looks at her, amazed at the power he seems to have over this woman.
She seems irritated with him, but it doesn't go with what she's saying.
Laurel rolls her eyes.
She looks down, pointedly, in the direction of her waist.
Kay pulls out a box of matches and strikes one on the side.
He raises it to his cigarette, but as it draws close, the match goes out with a sharp.
Kay looks up, sharply.
Above him, TONY, the counter guy, is stuck to one high corner of the ceiling by an enormous wad of viscous, dripping fluid.
He's dead, a frozen look of terror on his face and the can of Raid still clutched in his hand.
Laurel is at the end of her rope.
Jay's smile vanishes and his jaw drops as he figures it out.
He starts to reach for his gun.
Kay races into the morgue just as the examination table EXPLODES into the air, revealing EDGAR, who was hiding beneath it.
Now everything happens at once.
Jay leaps back and draws the Noisy Cricket, Kay pulls out his series four deatomizer, and Edgar holds his shotgun under Laurel's chin, using her body to shield his own.
Edgar backs away with Laurel, further into the morgue, toward a glass window that looks out at the base of an air shaft.
Jay and Kay advance, slowly, cornering him.
And with that he turns, leaps -- -- and CRASHES right through the window, into the air shaft.
EDGAR, still clutching LAUREL, EXPLODES up over a railing.
Jay and Kay duck into the air shaft and look up -- too far to climb, and the walls are smooth anyway.
And Jay starts running down the street, where DOZENS of cabs are waiting at the intersection.
He's running from cab to cab, pounding on windows, scaring the living shit out of people.
Jay and Kay rush in from the door under the World's Fair mural, and head toward the main display screen; all around them, the MIB staffers are in frenetic activity in response to the threat from above.
Just then, a loud ALARM wails.
AT THE MAIN VIEWING SCREEN, A GREEN LINE shoots out from the Arquillian ship, striking a region of planet earth.
-- headquarters, where every bell, whistle and light imaginable is going off.
Viewing the screen, it now reads.
Kay and Zed both look up at once, scowling.
They follow his gaze, up, over the computer terminals.
There, on the wall in front of them, where it has loomed for the entire movie, is the enormous mural of the World's Fair grounds.
Most prominent in the mural are two tall towers that rise dramatically from the ground, topped by -- -- the two flying saucers from the very first alien contact.
As they stand there, wide-eyed, staring at it, we.
-- the real-live twin towers on the actual fairgrounds in Flushing Meadows.
A taxi SCREECHES to a halt at the edge of a fence a hundred yards away.
EDGAR shoves LAUREL out through the driver's door and follows behind her, still holding his weapon on her.
Behind him, abandoned on the front seat of the cab, we finally see the front of the postcard he's been carrying around.
Jay flips back the plastic cover and JAMS his finger down on the red flashing button.
As the LTD rockets toward the traffic jam up ahead, it begins to evolve, its shape actually changing.
It becomes a larger, wirier machine, held together by an elaborate series of mechanical muscles and metallic tendons.
Kay's car hurtles toward certain death in the traffic jam, but at the last possible moment it swerves off to the side, a SUCKING SOUND coming from underneath it.
Instead of banging off the wall of the tunnel, the LTD actually clings to it.
It swerves up, onto the wall and hangs there, racing by the traffic below.
It keeps going, turning all the way over and driving upside down, wheels clinging to the roof of the tunnel.
Jay falls from his seat with a CLUNK, onto the upside down ceiling of the car.
Balled up on the back of his neck, he peers out the window as they tear through the tunnel, ZOOMING over the bottlenecked traffic underneath.
He reels, momentarily losing his grip on her.
She takes advantage of the moment and FLINGS HERSELF out, into the air.
Edgar flails, but she is beyond his reach.
She falls, tumbling through the air -- -- and lands in the branches of a tree.
She hits hard, the branches rattling, and reaches out and hangs on for dear life, high above the ground.
Above, Edgar just keeps climbing.
Over at the fence, the LTD comes to a looooong, skidding stop at the fairgrounds.
AT THE TRUNK, JAY and KAY flip open the trunk and scarf up whatever weapons look most dangerous.
Kay grabs a black box, UNSNAPS a row of latches, and opens it, revealing -- -- the most wicked-looking shotgun on the planet.
Three feet long, triple-barreled, over and under and under, plus a pump action reloader on top of a storage clip for a dozen more shells.
The shells themselves are solid, glistening like polished steel.
Kay loads up the clip.
But then, there is a VACUUM WHUMP, like all the air in the immediate area being sucked into a space the size of a dime, and a tremendous shock wave rolls out from the barrel of the guns.
Jay and Kay are sucked to the ground by the bizarre force, THUDDING to their stomachs like magnets to a refrigerator.
The shock waves wrinkle across the open space between them and the ship, then it HITS the ship -- -- and it too is sucked back down.
The saucer CRASHES through the Unisphere, an enormous steel globe, and THUDS to the earth, CRASHING through brush, dirt and rock.
Hurtling back toward them.
In front of them, the dust clears.
And the saucer is there, embedded in the earth, tipped off-kilter in a mound of debris.
A hatch comes up.revealing Edgar, walking slowly toward them, with contained fury.
Edgar stares at him.
Then flexes his arms, still encased in flesh.
His giant pincers RIP free of the rotting skin.
He extends both pincers to the sides, and, my God, his reach must be twelve feet across.
Kay and Jay pump their guns and aim at the Bug.
Suddenly the Bug SPITS.
And a HUGE, SLIMY WAD OF GOO shoots from him and engulfs both shotguns.
The Bug snorts it back, tearing them from Jay and Kay's grasp, then swallowing them.
Jay and Kay have only a second to react before -- The Bug SWIPES at them with the back of his clawed hand, like someone brushing aside a gnat -- and SENDS THEM FLYING FIFTEEN FEET IN THE AIR.
Jay and Kay hit the ground with loud grunts.
Kay gets to his feet.
The Bug just keeps moving toward the ladder.
Kay steps up to him, the small human facing off against the giant alien hug.
Kay has himself in the Bug's face, its dripping fangs inches from Kay's face.
The Bug reacts -- cranks open its massive jaws with a deafening HISS, lunges forward, and sucks Kay into his mouth.
The Bug straightens up to its full height and throws his head back.
Kay slides down the Bug's throat, bending it sideways as he kicks and SCREAMS his way down into its abdomen.
Kay, swimming in the Bug's intestinal fluid, tries to make his way to the gun, Holding his breath.
JAY looks on, in stunned horror.
He picks up a good-sized chunk of concrete dislodged by the crashing saucer and hurls it at the Bug.
Jay watches as the Bug continues its HOWL OF TRIUMPH.He feels totally defeated.
Jay knows what he has to do.
Laurel is still watching.
Jay stares right back at the Bug.
Kay holds up a finger in a 'wait a minute' gesture -- pulls out his pocket phone and hits a number.
Kay pulls out the neuralyzer.
He hands the neuralyzer to Jay.
Jay takes the neuralyzer.
Slips on his glasses.
Jay raises the neuralyzer.
With a brilliant FLASH, the screen turns white.
CLOSE ON various tabloid headlines as a hand flicks through them.
Parrish blinks, has he heard something, has he not, he is not sure, he releases his arm, his grimace of pain fades, the discomfort seems momentarily to have subsided.
It is unmistakably a Voice, it is not the wind, Parrish has heard something, he looks around, but no one is there.
He can't finish peeing, turns back to his bedroom.
All beweildered, Parrish looks around once more, climbs back into bed, trying to trace the source of what he has heard or hasn't heard; he is not sure.
He pulls the covers up now, not a SOUND, tries to close his eyes.
Parrish sits up again, frightened, but still there is no one there, he seems fraught with indecision, should he get up, should he not, what is happening?
Parrish closes his eyes but then they flutter open, he glances up at the ceiling and finally, exhausted, falls back asleep.
The great lawn infested with workmen, planting stakes, un- rolling a huge canvas tent, gardeners fashioning topiary and adding landscaping of their own, crews setting up platforms, speakers, lights.
Ubiquitous is ALLISON, 35, Parrish's older daughter, foremen competing for her attention and she relishing every moment.
A Painter approaches.
Parrish, groomed for the day, trots down the stairs, observing the activity outside through the windows.
Parrish grins, continues on, is intercepted by Allison who, on catching sight of him, bounces in from the terrace.
But Parrish only pours coffee.
Parrish gazes at the going-on outside which are increasing in intensity.
Allison goes, Susan observes Parrish fidgeting.
The helicopter CHOPS in overhead.
A BUTLER and May carry the overnight bags for the family as led by Parrish, they hurry towards the helicopter.
Drew kisses her, over her shoulder he glances at Parrish.
Quince comes running up now.
Drew ushers everybody on, first Parrish, then Susan and Quince, Drew the last to climb on, shuts the door behind him As Allison hurries away from the whirling rotors.
He smiles.
The Young Man hangs up, turns around and sits down to an overflowing plate of eggs and meat, potatoes and toast, the counterman refills his cup and the Young Man ties into the breakfast, eating it with such relish that Susan can't take her eyes off him.
He senses her eyes, glances over, his cheeks filled with a mouthful of food, swallows embarrassedly.
Susan laughs.
The Young Man smiles.
Susan looks into her coffee.
Drew is still at Parrish's heels, but now Parrish stops at the open door, turns back to him, reminding Drew that this is as far as he goes without being invited.
Parrish disappears into his office.
Drew, on his way out, glides past Jennifer's desk.
Leaning against the back of the couch, he stares out through floor-to-ceiling windows, surveying the Manhattan skyline: cogitates.
He takes a seat on the couch, opens a folder, suddenly he flinches with a spasm of pain in his shoulder.
It is sharp but brief, he notices it but what it does not continue, he ignores it.
Parrish resumes looking at the folder when suddenly the pain comes again.
Frozen with surprise, Parrish's eyes search the room for the source of the SOUND, it comes from no particular direction, yet surrounds him.
Suddenly Parrish's symptoms sharply intensify, he is sinking to the floor but somehow grabs a corner of the desk, holds on with one hand, with the other clutches at his shoulder and arm, the pain has violently seized the upper part of his body.
Parrish grips the edge of the desk, the pain assaulting him on the one hand, the Voice coming at him from the outer, each aberration feeds on the other, he is beside himself, consumed with pain and bewildered by what seems to be a hallucination but which he is certain is not.
Parrish is possessed.
Parrish gasps.
He holds on tight to the corner of the desk, sweat dripping, his skin ashen.
Susan at the door now, pauses abruptly, her eyes on the Young Man.
The Young Man holds the door for Susan as they step out onto the street.
Susan is staring at him now, he smiles, all open and vulnerable.
Parrish ignores her, his attention has been taken by the Voice.
His eyelids flutter, nonplused, edgy and fearful.
Parrish is confounded.
Blindly and disconcerted, he follows Allison and Drew and Quince.
Parrish sits.
Parrish is on the edge of his seat, struggling to hide his panic.
The conversation swirls on around Parrish, he is deaf to it.
Parrish is in shock, still striving to gain control of himself.
As Coyle serves him, Parrish turns to Luisa.
Parrish is stunned.
Parrish, spinning with anxiety, tries to summon up his courage to go as Allison continues.
Finally Parrish rises from the table, starts out.
Allison is about to press the point, but then drifts into disappointed silence as Parrish leaves the room.
Parrish moves deliberately down the hall, slows as he nears the doorway to the library.
The door is open.
He hesitates before he crosses the threshold, taking in as much as his eye can see, now tentatively, he enters.
A beautiful, classic room, areas of dim, warm light, club chairs, books reaching to the ceiling, a rolling library ladder, a weathered dictionary on a stand, a model boat carved of bone set into the stacks which are separated from the reading area by a seven-foot high partition of obscured glass.
Parrish, poised in the doorway, looks around, nothing in sight.
Parrish is startled, he shrinks backward for a moment, his eyes searching the room for the Voice, the timbre and pitch of which is exactly what he has heard before.
Now a flicker of a shadow from behind a corner of the obscured glass, the section of the room most distant from Parrish, there is a shape.
Something is there.
Parrish falls silent, something in the SOUND and TONE of the Voice muting him.
He takes a step backwards.
Parrish struggles to make sense of what he is hearing.
After a moment.
The figure who is the Voice takes a step forward now, no longer obscured by the glass he comes into the light, revealing himself to be the Young Man seen previously in the coffee shop, but there is a change; he seems odd, offcenter, not handsome but terrifyingly beautiful.
A moment, Parrish beside himself.
The Young Man steps closer to Parrish, his face is inches from a shaking, sweating Parrish's face, the Young Man daring Parrish to identify him.
Parrish turns away.
But the Young Man, spectacularly, is in front of him again.
Parrish is shocked, stunned, terrified at the word, by what he has comprehended.
He surveys the Young Man who, at this moment, actually seems bewildered by his effect.
A hopelessly confused Parrish does not respond for a moment.
A SOUND at the door.
Parrish ignores her at first, finally he looks at Luisa then at the Young Man, then once more at both of them as if to verify the Young Man's presence has been acknowledged by Luisa.
Luisa nods perfunctorily and exits.
Parrish is frozen, dumbfounded.
Parrish is frightened by the response.
Parrish hesitates, then obediently leads the Young Man out of the library, down a long hallway and across the foyer.
As Parrish and the Young Man enter, Allison is heard in the background.
Parrish and the Young Man appear at the table, an awkward pause ensues, the unannounced guest's presence at a family dinner being noted, and the guest himself carefully surveyed.
Parrish is horribly uncomfortable as the Young Man looks at each person as if he were discovering a face for the first time.
Parrish drifts into another awkward pause.
The group waits patiently.
Parrish's face reveals a desperate searching for a last name, a furtive glance at Joe.
Parrish's brow darkens and a name tumbles from his lips.
Luisa has set a plate in front of Joe, and Parrish's, which was taken to the kitchen to be warmed, has been returned.
Joe looks over at the other guests, then picks up his uten- sils gingerly, strives to copy the others, stops, staring at his food.
Parrish falls silent again, looking for an answer.
She kisses Drew in some light, humorous way they have ob- viously done before, their heads bobbing like plastic water toys and their lips meeting mid-air.
At the kiss's conclusion Susan suddenly notices Joe is present and has been watching.
She is shocked, embarrassed, pleased, conflicted, an instant and wide spectrum of emotions.
Joe is happily confounded by all the interaction.
Joe has heard Susan's question but, as he studies her, doesn't answer.
Drew reacts to this allusion of intimacy.
Joe rises, follows Parrish to the door, stops.
Joe pivots, and he follows Parrish out the proper door.
Parrish turns back to the bedroom.
Joe tests the springs.
Coyle regards his peanut butter sheepishly.
Joe raises the spoonful of peanut butter in a kind of toast to the staff.
A spectacular indoor Olympic pool, window commanding views of the skyline.
Susan is swimming laps, looking very professional in a black Speedo suit, Joe wanders in, still licking his peanut butter.
He observes her, but she is unaware of him, however now, as she makes a barrel turn, his shadow falls over a reflection from a window, she aborts her lap, looks up to see who it is.
Susan climbs out of the pool, gets halfway up the ladder, points to a stack of towels.
Joe turns to the towels, but one hand is occupied with the spoonful of peanut butter, he shifts it to the other hand, can't manage the huge Turkish towel one-handed, now implants the spoon in his mouth, lifts the towel with both hands and presents it to Susan.
Joe continues to nibble at his peanut butter.
He finishes the spoonful.
He shifts the spoon from hand to hand, starts to stick it in his pocket, realizes this is inappropriate.
Susan holds her hand out to him, he places the spoon in it and she sets the spoon on the table with the towels.
She watches, fascinat- ed, as Joe licks his gums, enjoying every last bit of his spoonful.
Parrish regards Joe, the tie is a sorry mess now, a batwing of silk stretching across his collarbone.
Parrish is startled, he regards Joe carefully.
Silence as Joe considers the point, Parrish quickly crosses to him, undoes the tie, and now begins tying it for him.
He has now, with some difficulty, completed the tying of Joe's tie, adjusts it beautifully on Joe's collar, then spins him around in front of a mirror.
Joe, catching sight of his own appearance, rises to the balls of his feet, quite taken.
They stride on, cutting through the crowd, Joe all at home in his new surrounding, but Parrish just the opposite, un- characteristically uncomfortable, phrases forming on his lips but unspoken, then suddenly he blurts out.
Jennifer wheels and heads right back to the office as Parrish arrives at the door to the Board Room.
Parrish hesitates, nods, conceding the point, reaches for the doorknob.
Parrish enters, Joe following right behind him.
Everyone sits when Parrish does but Joe, right at home, spots a tray of refreshments: coffee, pas- tries, he heads for them.
Immediately indications of surprise on Board members' faces at Parrish bringing in an 'observer', Drew's reaction guarded but intense.
Drew indicates to the Board's Stenographer to arrange Joe's refreshments.
Joe interjects.
After a moment.
Drew regards Joe.
The Board is provoked and mystified by Joe and even more by his presence, they cast meaningful glances at Parrish, Drew coolly grasps the irritation of the members.
But Joe doesn't move.
Joe stares at the money as Parrish shows him the door.
Joe goes.
Susan is busy giving instructions to a Nurse, a patient on an examining table beside them.
As she finishes, she suddenly notices Joe down the corridor in the reception area.
She is startled for the moment, quickly makes a last notation, hands a chart to the Nurse and heads down the corridor.
Susan regards him.
Visible now behind them are a Caribbean woman in her mid- thirties, TEENA, an arm around her mother, EASTER, who is holding her stomach and rocking back and forth in her seat, in great pain.
Easter looks up and sees Joe.
She abruptly becomes still, eyes wide, as if sudden recognition.
But Easter just stares at Joe, fearful.
Joe looks at Easter, curiously.
Joe regards Easter, a long moment.
Joe shakes his head, a firm no.
But when he looks and speaks to Easter again, it is with concern and even regret.
She does, her pained grimace melts into a peaceful smile.
He takes his hand away, and the Orderly wheels Easter off.
Teena goes.
Susan regards Joe, puzzled.
Joe shifts.
Another awkward silence.
Susan smiles gently.
Another moment.
Joe is more abstracted than usual, he is staring at Parrish's food.
Joe takes another big bite.
Silence, Parrish getting lost in his memories.
Joe is riveted on Parrish ow, Parrish aware of him, has paused.
A KNOCK, the door opens and Drew enters, looks at Parrish, then at Joe, stands poised in the doorway.
Drew takes a moment, then plunges in.
Drew is stunned.
Drew heads for the door, turns around.
Allison and Susan together by a piano; Parrish, Quince and a distracted Joe are gathered near the terrace.
Quince sees Parrish hesitate.
An excited Quince drains his drink and heads for Drew as Allison appears.
An awkward pause.
Allison elbows him.
Silence, everyone waiting for Parrish to proceed.
He sits, then immediately stands up again.
Coyle heads for the kitchen.
Joe is locked on Susan, it is as if there is nobody else in the room.
Parrish regards Joe, then Susan, his face reflects a sudden concern with their relationship.
Silence, Parrish is at a loss.
Susan's directness has caught him by surprise, Joe blinks.
Joe remains silent, rendered extremely anxious by Susan's inquiries.
Susan comes closer to Joe.
Joe tries to respond but he can't, his stammer interrupted by Susan.
They are inches apart now, the smell of each other surrounds them, a heaviness to the moment, now Joe turns to head up the stairs.
He excuses himself with an ineffable gesture, now climbs the stairs, Susan watches him disappear.
Susan is left alone now with Parrish who is fixing a drink at a sidebar.
She kisses him.
She goes.
The Board of Parrish Communications is gathered, absent are Parrish and Quince.
Drew leans over to Felicia, speaks quietly and she leaves the room.
The door opens and Felicia enters followed by Quince, sur- prised at seeing a convened Board, but still he is all smiles.
Quince hesitates, then realizes what Drew has on his mind.
He nods confidently to Drew, then turns importantly to the Board.
She bursts into tears all over again.
A sense of foreboding falls over Joe's face, his fear that he is passing through some barrier, a point of no return.
The apprehensive expression on Joe's face fades away.
Parrish and Joe enter, the entire Board is assembled, includ- ing Drew, Quince and Sloane.
Drew gets the message, at the same time Joe is checking out all the attendees, his eyes come to rest on Drew.
A moment as Parrish looks around, the moment extends, it appears he may not ever answer.
Parrish is expressionless.
Joe's eyes are riveted on Drew.
Joe follows Parrish out of the room.
Sloane has pursued Parrish and Joe.
The elevator door opens, Parrish and Joe step inside and the door closes, leaving Sloane behind.
The Board meeting has broken up, clusters of members have lingered, exchanging post-mortems.
And enraged Quince has cornered Drew, out of earshot of the others.
Quince falls silent, aquiver with this reality.
Quince is struck dumb.
Her head nestles underneath his arm, she has a sense of his comforting her without knowing that he is doing so.
She laughs at the earnestness with which he answers.
Joe seems to drift away now, they lie together as one but for the first time, she feels separate from him, sensing him gone to some distant, distant land.
She smiles.
Joe and Susan are at the front door, he has helped her on with her coat, she turns around, they kiss.
The kiss lingers, Susan breaks away, reaches for the door, looks back longingly at Joe and then she is gone, Joe closing the door softly after her.
He turns back into the foyer, looks up, Parrish is on the balcony, it is clear he has observed Joe and Susan.
Parrish, in a state of shock, doesn't answer for a moment.
He starts up the stairs.
Joe waits guardedly at the bottom of the stairs as Parrish descends.
Joe senses Parrish's tone, doesn't answer.
Parrish measures Joe.
Parrish's jaw sets.
Susan seems distracted.
Parrish blinks, stares down at his cards.
There is something in Susan's tone that lets him know not a word has sunk in.
Quince sips the red, now the white, now he pours some of each into one glass.
Quince smiles, nods embarrassedly.
He drains his wine.
Joe regards Quince.
Quince drains one more glass of wine.
He heads out, Parrish and Joe fall silent.
Joe is silent for a moment, cogitating.
Parrish is beginning to reach Joe.
Joe makes his way down the path from Parrish's study, a weight on his shoulders, his step measured, within himself until he is hit by the lights and laughter and MUSIC of the party.
Joe blinks, at a loss.
She waits.
He kisses her, they fall into a deep embrace.
Joe is struggling with a response, finally, inevitably, he drifts into a long silence.
Susan is beside herself, her emotions tossed in every direction, Joe steadies her.
She smiles wanly, Joe leaves her.
Parrish is seated by the window, lights from the party flashing past, the MUSIC and laughter audible but muted, the fever of the celebration lost on him, within himself.
Joe enters, Parrish looks up.
Parrish waits.
Parrish regards him sympathetically.
The silence is broken by a KNOCK on the door.
Quince appears, flushed with excitement.
Parrish weighs the information for a moment.
Quince exits, Parrish presses the button for the speaker- phone.
Quince leads the way through the lights and MUSIC.
Drew, fashioning an imperial entrance for himself, hails partygoers as he passes, Quince enjoying the irony.
Parrish is at his desk, Joe in a distant corner of the room.
Drew enters with Quince, Quince nods, excusing himself, and closes the door behind him.
Drew takes a seat.
Joe can no longer control himself.
Parrish is struck dumb.
He looks at Joe pleadingly, shaking his head imperceptibly, but Joe nods to him blithely -- and then commandingly.
Drew is all attention.
Joe steps forward.
Parrish clicks the speakerphone off.
Drew is staring at Joe, shaking his head.
Parrish hesitates, waves and steps away, APPLAUSE that grows into CHEERS, the music resumes, another dance tune.
Quince grabs him, pumps his hand and claps him on the back.
Now Parrish spots Allison, he wraps her in a tight embrace, they hold each other close for a moment, but then are separated by a surge of guests.
Parrish sees Susan, she smiles but there is a tinge of sadness about her.
He heads towards her, they are somehow situated as if they were alone in this crowd.
Susan is in pain now, she can't summon an answer.
They regard each other, a long pause, they have reached an understanding.
He takes her in his arms and they dance away.
On a distant fringe of the party, a grass terrace that still commands a view of the dance floor, is Joe.
His eyes are on Parrish and Susan, he watches them admiringly yet ruefully.
A Waiter passes, catches sight of Joe, stops.
Joe regards the Waiter for a moment.
The Waiter hesitates.
The Waiter moves off.
Joe's attention returns to Parrish and Susan, the dance number ends, a BOOM.
On the dance floor.
Parrish looks up, sees Joe up on the terrace, waiting.
Suddenly he hugs her, holds her very close.
She looks at him, he smiles, nods, but doesn't release her until she smiles back.
Now she heads out with the crowd for the fireworks.
When Parrish senses she is on her way, he turns and heads up towards Joe.
Joe rises to meet Parrish as he approaches.
They watch the guests gathering to view the fireworks.
Joe waits.
Joe regards Parrish, waits until he has a sense that Parrish has accepted what Joe has said, then Joe continues.
Parrish waits.
Parrish smiles faintly, takes a deep breath, he strides out again, Joe right with him.
In tandem they continue on and disappear over the crest of the hill.
A barrage of fireworks lights up the sky.
Down below, Susan, in a pained reflex, again turns and looks up towards the hill.
She hesitates, now glides away from the party, her step quickens as she walks up towards the hill.
Susan halts, in the distance a figure is approaching from over the crest of the hill where Joe and Parrish disappeared.
He is heading straight for her, she tries to make him out, seems to recognize him, starts to walk towards him as if pulled by a magnet.
Now she stops again.
It is a man, he keeps coming, and now that he is close and recognizes him.
Something about him makes Susan slightly tentative.
Joe shrugs, scratches his head endearingly, uncertain of time and place.
Some realization is dawning on Susan, it renders her lightheaded.
Susan regards Joe intently, searching his face for an answer.
Susan holds herself very still.
She searches the Young Man's eyes, his face is open, completely vulnerable, waiting for her response.
A long silence, the words come out haltingly.
Susan signs, the Young Man smiles gently, they are completely intent on each other.
Susan smiles, the fireworks finale goes off, the MUSIC comes up from below, the night fills with light.
The Young Man searches Susan's face, now takes her hand -- and together they start back towards the party.
A plane takes off from Orlando International Airport amid heavy clouds.
In a room, a digital clock on a bedside table reads It turns to A naked dark haired woman with her hair falling around her shoulders, sits up on a bed.
She gets off the bed.
There's a naked man sleeping on his stomach wakes up.
The woman takes a purse and walks out of the room as the man picks up a cell phone.
He sits up in bed.
He drinks from an almost entry beer bottle.
And watches the shapely woman as she reenters the room.
The woman picks out some clothes.
She slips on a thong.
The man lights a cigarette.
The woman lights a joint.
The man lies on his back.
The woman climbs on the bed.
She straddles the man.
She puts the joint to his lips.
She gets off the bed.
He smokes a cigarette.
He sits up and snorts a line of cocaine.
The man walks out of the room dressed in a black suit and sporting dark glasses under a pilot's cap.
An airplane pin is on his lapel.
People run across the tarmac as rain lashes the airport.
Lightening flashes in the distance.
The man now in a raincoat walks under a parked south jet airplane.
He pauses near one of the wheels.
Opens his mouth and sprays some mouth freshener.
He trots to the mobile stairway leading to the passenger walkway and slips on the first step.
He joins the passengers through a side door.
Whitaker sits next to his co-pilot.
Whip inhales the oxygen.
Whip fidgets on his side of the cockpit.
Ken watches as Whip brushes his hair.
A woman steps out of her room at Hotel Atlanta.
Carrying up a folded-up massage table.
She wears a dress and has a small tattoo on her shoulder.
She pulls some bills from a bundle of cash.
She walks to a car and places the massage table in the trunk.
She smokes as she makes a call from the driver's seat.
She leans on the steering wheel and lowers the phone to the passenger seat.
A man snorts coke.
He looks Nicole over.
Brad drops his towel.
He holds a small square.
Margaret sits, facing Trina.
Whip pushes the side-stick forward.
The cockpit shakes.
Whip takes the yoke and pulls back.
They ascend.
The plane shakes and the items fall from overhead bins.
Ken casts an uneasy sideways glance at Whip.
With eyes on the horizon, as he steers the plane through rough air.
He moves the side-stick forward.
The altimeter slides quickly to the right as the plane rises.
They reach a clearing through clouds and bright sunlight as Whip levels out.
Trina smiles and looks at the passengers from her jump seat.
Whip takes the phone.
Nicole gets out of the car and runs up to the second floor of a small run-down apartment complex.
She pulls out a key as she reaches the door, only to discover it is slightly open.
She smiles at him.
He stands in the doorway.
She kicks the door closed.
She flings her bag on a table, and it hits a box which falls and scatters its contents.
She spots a syringe.
Whip speaks into the intercom.
He pours the contents of a small vodka bottle into a juice container hidden from the passengers' view.
He tosses three miniature bottles as he grabs the spiked orange juice.
He takes a long drink as Margaret exits the toilet and he goes in.
In Nicole's apartment, framed photographs on the table show a younger, smiling Nicole with her mother.
Nicole lightly taps the syringe.
Then pushes out a small drop that slides down the needle.
She tightens a tourniquet around her arm and holds the end securely in her mouth.
She positions the needle and injects.
Her arms relax and she lets go of the syringe.
She leans back, eyes closed.
The strap falls from her mouth.
Her head lulls to her shoulder.
Her dilated pupils shrink to tiny dots.
She grabs the packet of cocaine that Kip gave her and falls on her side.
The packet falls inches from her hand.
Her fingers reach out, but only push it away.
Her hand goes still as feet appear under the door.
In the cockpit, Whip sleeps with paper covering his eyes and his sunglasses over the paper.
Ken's yoke jerks away.
The yoke slips out of Ken's hands as Whip struggles to gain control and the plane begins to dive.
The wheels of the aircraft unfold.
In the galley, Margaret grabs the phone.
Margaret unbuckles her seat belt.
Alarmed passengers grasp the seat in front of them as a flight attendant tries to assist someone.
Cammie falls and hits her head.
Cammie lies still.
Whip banks to the left.
The plane turns upside down.
She slides the side-stick forward.
One wheel gets stuck while retracting.
Inside the cabin, Cammie comes to a rest on the ceiling.
Trina sees a young boy slip out of his seat.
Outside Georgian Gardens, a medical aide wheels Nicole beside Fran as the upside down plane flies past.
Trina crawls to the boy and straps him back in his seat.
A light flashes on the control panel in the cockpit.
The plane turns upright, and the still-unconscious Cammie falls on some passengers.
Trina loses her hold and falls against the bulkhead.
Fire and smoke billow from the left engine.
Trina tumbles across the galley as the plane straightens out.
Gauges drop.
They head towards a church sitting on an expanse of open land.
Whip steers the plane away from the church's steeple, but the wing grazes the top.
The plane hits the ground.
Debris glides past the cockpit as Whip bangs his head and passes out.
Through blurred vision, Whip sees Ken leaning to the side in his seat as he is dragged out.
Margaret is slumped next to Trina's still body, her head crushed by a collapsed bulkhead.
Smoke blocks Whip's vision as he is pulled away from the plane as people in white robes help the passengers.
A fire engine arrives.
Whip looks up at a female EMT leaning over him.
Then, turns towards the black smoke rising from the crash site.
The broken-off spire from the church lies some distance away from an ambulance as rescue workers help survivors.
In a hospital ward, Whip slowly opens his right eye.
The other eye is covered by a bandage.
He sees a seated man on the TV gesturing as rescue workers push a stretcher behind him.
A field reporter for Channel News comments live from the site as lights flicker in the background.
On TV, cell phone footage shows the descent of the plane as it swerves and slices off the church steeple.
It glides overhead, both engines on fire.
And slams down on its side as people in white robes run for cover.
Whip, his head wrapped in gauze.
Watches in a daze as the church folks stand and take in the scene from a distance, then, slowly approach.
Whip averts his gaze from the screen and notices a man in the room.
The man wears a suit with the collar open, and is staring intently at his cell phone.
Charlie turns and Whip smiles.
A man walks in wearing an NTSB jacket, followed by a few law officers, a nurse and a doctor.
The NTSB officer places a recorder on Whip's bed.
Whip nods weakly.
The doctor leaves.
Craig takes his recorder and leaves with the others, but Charlie stays back.
Charlie smiles.
He reaches for a plastic bag.
Charlie leaves.
Whip puts his bandaged hand to his mouth as tears flow down his face.
Then, he shakes his head and takes his cell phone from the plastic bag.
He drops the phone on his stomach.
A heavy man with a goatee walks into the hospital.
Wearing Bermuda shorts and dark glasses, with earphone wires hanging on each side of his head.
He strides to the corridors carrying a bag in his hand and another slung over his shoulder.
He removes his earphones and leans over the reception desk.
He enters Whip's room with a video camera as a nurse helps Whip from the bed exposing his buttocks.
The nurse leaves the room.
Harling places his hand on Whip's head and leaves.
Whip closes his eyes.
Whip is startled awake.
He looks around the dark room, then, clicks on the light.
He peeks into the corridor as a nurse walks by the reception desk.
He quickly limps down the hall using a cane.
He sees Nicole sitting on the stairs smoking a cigarette.
She rises to leave.
She sits.
Whip leans against the wall facing her.
He lights a cigarette.
She shakes her head.
A patient climbs the stairs.
Nicole tosses her pack.
The gaunt man stands by his IV pole.
She shakes her head.
She glances at Whip.
The bold man turns to Whip.
Cigarette hanging out of his mouth, the man picks up the IV pole and walks down the stairs.
She wipes a tear from her eye, offers a smile, then stands and climbs up the stairs.
A black Cadillac lurches out of the hospital parking structure and passes the news crews parked outside.
Harling opens a beer and takes a swig.
He hands Whip a package.
A bundle of cash.
A car turns into a dirt driveway.
The car passes a dilapidated shed on the right and pulls up to large older farmhouse.
Whip stops the car.
Whip places a bag beside the door and reaches above one of the wooden posts supporting the veranda roof.
He grabs a hidden key.
He enters a cozy, fully furnished living room and looks around.
A retro stereo sits on a cabinet against the wall with framed photos.
Whip, his eyes still covered by a bandage, looks around.
Whip carries a plastic bag into the kitchen and places it on a dining table.
He plugs in a charger and checks his iPhone.
It shows voice messages.
He leans on a bureau and pulls out a prescription bottle from his pocket.
He glances at the pills, then, at a decanter of whiskey.
Another liquor bottle's near the stereo.
He licks his lips and clenches his jaw.
Using a cane for support, he strides into the bathroom and dumps the pills down the toilet.
He collects the bottles of liquor and the decanter and turns on the stereo.
He empties the bottles in the sink.
Then, he dumps the empties in the garbage.
He takes a case of Corona and some other beer cans from the fridge, and also, drains them.
He dumps the cans in a bin.
He takes a bag of marijuana from a wooden box in a drawer and flushes it.
He continues his chore with determination as he moves from cabinet to cabinet, removing and tossing bottles and cans.
He opens a freezer and finds a bottle of vodka.
He pours it down the sink.
He lifts the bulging plastic trash bag out of the trash can and carries it outside.
He slides the doors of the shed open, revealing a two-seat Cessna plane in the small hangar.
Whip removes the blanket covering the windshield and switches on the lights.
He looks at a group of photos hanging above a work station off to one side of the hangar.
Then, he takes a picture of a young African American boy wedged in a frame.
He kisses the photograph.
He pulls out a bottle of liquor from a bowling bag and tosses it aside.
He holds a framed wedding photo of himself and his wife.
Later that evening, he sits watching the news.
Charlie stands at a table strewn with pictures of the crash as men in suits look on.
The next morning Whip walks through the lobby of a hotel, cane in hand.
The large eye patch gone and now stitches remain about his eye.
He enters a dining area with a buffet to one side and approached Charlie seated with a man wearing glasses.
Hugh looks through a file.
Whip looks at the piece of paper before him.
Whip narrows his eyes.
Whip rises to leave.
Whip stops in the bar area.
A photo of Whip appears on the TV behind the bar.
Whip sits at the bar and moves a cocktail napkin back and forth, as he studies the glass of vodka.
He picks it up and takes a drink.
He smacks his lips, picks up the glass again and drains the contents.
Later, he sets a case of Budweiser in the passenger seat.
He gets in the car and unscrews a gallon bottle of vodka, looks around and chugs it.
Groggy-eyed, Whip drives down a street, beer can in hand.
He passes a dead-end street and stops.
He watches as Nicole loads items in the back of a car.
Whip looks away, then back at Nicole as she runs back through a worn fence.
Whip pulls up to the apartment entrance behind Nicole's car.
He passes the car with Nicole's things and glances through a few enlarged photographs in a basket.
He takes a sip from his beer and looks up, alert.
Whip walks toward the apartment.
Whip pushes Fran to the floor.
Nicole nods.
Whip takes out some money.
Whip looks at her for a moment, then nods.
Nicole sits in the passenger seat of Whip's car as he drives and drinks his beer.
She bites her thumb.
He offers Nicole a beer and she refuses.
He lights a cigarette.
She fidgets as she smiles to herself and observes Whip as he drives.
A cassette labeled Soul Funk number two plays on the stereo as Whip lies back with a pack of ice on his knee.
He picks up a glass of whiskey as Nicole, fresh from taking a shower, exits the bathroom.
She picks up a cushion.
Carrying the pillow, she walks to Whip.
Kneels down beside him and removes the ice pack from his knee.
She lifts his leg and places the cushion under it.
She massages his knee.
Whip is laid back in the armchair watching as Nicole's hands move up to cover his hand.
He raises the glass as if to take a drink, but stops midway.
Nicole hesitates, her gaze steady on him.
She takes the glass from his hand and sets it carefully on the nearby table.
She pushes herself towards him and they kiss.
They look into each other's eyes and their lips meet again.
The next morning Whip watches Nicole as she briefly stirs in her sleep.
Whip looks up and rises off the bed.
Outside, Hugh gets out of a car.
Whip steps onto the veranda holding his cane and a gun.
Hugh partially raises his hands.
Hugh and Whip climb a platform near the church.
A small congregation listens to a sermon in a cordoned off area.
Hugh takes a pair of binoculars and watches a woman step out of a black SUV.
Whip watches as reporters and officials wander around the wreckage.
Whip clenches his jaw.
Carr stands at the far end of the large conference table opposite Charlie.
Carr pushes through the double glass doors and walks towards Whip, who stands.
Whip forces a smile.
Whip drinks straight from a whiskey bottle.
He watches a home video of his father and son playing football.
Nicole walks in the door.
Nicole watches him.
He increases the volume on the TV.
Nicole has not moved since she walked in.
She watches Whip try to stand, and then, fall.
He lies prone on the carpet.
Nicole covers her mouth with her hand.
Whip has passed out.
Nicole removes the cigarette from his fingers.
And adjusts his head so he can breathe easily.
Nicole covers Whip with a blanket.
Then, turns off the video and switches off the light.
Nicole sits in a chair on the veranda taking pictures.
Whip steps out in a bathrobe.
He ambles toward her.
He sits in a rocking chair.
He smiles at her.
He places a cigarette in his mouth and picks up her camera.
He picks up a book from the coffee table between them.
He points to some open land.
Nicole puffs on her cigarette.
She nods.
Whip points the camera at her.
At a church, a large framed picture of Katerina stands surrounded by flowers as a coffin is carried out.
Whip stands in a dark suit and watches the procession pass.
A young boy touches Whip's arm.
Whip turns around and sees Margaret.
He goes to her and they hug.
Margaret reaches for her son and pulls him close.
Both watch as Trevor goes off to find his dad.
They hug again.
She looks at him with tears in her eyes.
They stare at each other, unmoving.
He wipes her tears with his thumb.
Margaret watches him, her brow creased and her eyes soft with sympathy.
He kisses her and leaves.
Whip leans against his car in a parking lot and watches an airplane overhead.
Nicole approaches in quick strides.
They hug.
She hands him a Zippo.
He sticks a cigarette in his mouth.
A man stands at a podium.
Whip sits semi-slumped in a chair.
The majority in the room lift their hands, including Nicole.
Whip crosses his arms.
Whip leaves.
Whip parks outside a bar and walks in as his co-pilot, Ken, appears on the news.
Whip exits the bar.
At the hospital, Whip walks over to a private room and peeps in.
He taps his cane on the door frame.
A nurse dresses Ken's wounds.
Vicky and Ken look toward Whip.
Ken turns to the nurse.
Ken's left leg lies on a brace.
Whip closes the door.
He sits down.
Whip arises to leave.
Ken reaches for Whip's hands.
Whip's eyes dart up and down.
He takes Ken's hands.
Later at Whip's family farm, Nicole sees the lights on in the hangar.
Whip leans over the Cessna.
Still wearing his tie, his shirt's sleeves rolled up.
He jumps off a ladder and hustles over to Nicole, kissing her.
He sips his beer.
She notices cocaine on the table.
Nicole sits on the bed.
She ends a call and continues packing her things in the bedroom.
She ignores Whip.
Whip takes a large swig before the setting the bottle on a table and entering the bedroom.
Nicole walks past Whip, raising a hand to her head before she sits on the bed.
He sits next to her on the bed.
She leans in and their foreheads touch.
He kisses her and she allows him to pull her into an embrace.
In the morning, Whip lies sleeping on the bed fully dressed.
Nicole stands at the bedroom entrance and looks at him.
She leaves an envelope with Whip's name on it between his lighter and a bottle of whiskey.
She carries a suitcase and a basket, and walks away from the house.
Sheila's van is parked behind some trees and Nicole puts her things in.
The van drives off.
Whip stops as he sees the envelope, then, trots over to the table and picks it up, opening it.
He reads the letter using the light from a nearby window.
He picks up the bottle and throws it hard across the room.
It explodes against the hanging photo of his son, which stares at it motionless.
Rain falls steadily as Whip sits in the car and pours alcohol into a bottle of juice and takes a drink.
He exits the car and enters a large hangar.
The crashed South Jet Aircraft stands almost completely assembled with parts strewn around beside it.
Cabinets and shelves lining one side of a building.
Hugh follows Charlie out of the plane.
Whip cocks his head.
Hugh turns and walks away.
Whip speeds down the mud road, splashing slush to the side.
He brakes when he sees news crews outside the farm house.
Some reporters spot him, he reverses and drives back onto the main road.
He stops opposite a house in a quiet neighborhood.
Pulling up on a curb barely missing a fire hydrant.
He chugs on the bottle of juice.
He steps out of the car and walks up a foot path to a house.
A man watches Whip from a parked car and speaks into his cell phone.
Whip's ex-wife opens the door.
Her smile fades.
Whip hugs the struggling Will.
Whip turns off the news.
Whip lifts his arms.
Whip walks down a hotel corridor with Charlie holding a can Coca-cola.
They approached a burly man.
Hugh emerges from a room.
Whip enters the room.
They shake hands.
They hug.
Whip looks around the spacious room.
He picks up a can of Coke and goes over to the fridge.
He finds it stocked with juices and nonalcoholic beverages.
Later, he eats a meal alone in his room.
He lies in bed surfing channels on the TV.
He shaves.
He tries to open the thick file Hugh left for him, and it spreads like an accordion.
He abandons it.
He sits over the toilet smoking as the bath fills.
The clock shows AM as he hangs a suit in a wardrobe.
He looks around for the source of the knocking.
Lying in bed he's awakened by the same sound.
He gets out of bed and goes to a side door.
He holds his ear to it, then pulls it open.
The extended lock on a door leading to an adjoining room bumps repeatedly against the doorjamb.
Whip enters the room.
A gentle breeze blows through the balcony doors ruffling drawn curtains.
Whip walks over and gazes at the skyline.
A plane's beacon lights flash in the night sky.
Whip turns around and his eyes fall on a fridge.
He opens the door to reveal rows of miniature bottles of alcohol on the shelves.
Whip squats and looks over the array of spirits.
He settles for vodka.
Still kneeling, he unscrews the top from the bottle, and runs his fingers over the cold surface of the glass.
He brings the bottle to his nose.
He replaces the cap, then slowly stands up and sets the bottle on top of the fridge.
He closes the fridge door and walks away.
Whip swoops up the bottle.
Charlie exits an elevator carrying three coffees.
Hugh follows.
Edmonds knocks.
The men look at each other.
Hugh checks the time.
Bottles lie everywhere.
Whip lies face down in the bathroom, a large blood stain on the toilet.
Harling arrives, a bag slung over his shoulder.
Hugh jumps back, and Charlie raises his hands.
Harling gestures to Edmonds.
Hugh clears the table.
Harling sits beside Whip.
He cuts the coke.
Whip smiles up at Harling.
A torn piece of toilet paper, with a spot of blood, hangs over his eye.
Hugh fetches the water.
Harling prepares the cigarette.
Whip drinks.
Harling sucks on the cigarette and hands it to Whip.
Harling cuts more lines of coke.
Harling snorts a line and offers a hit to Charlie and Hugh.
Whip nods.
Whip enters the bathroom.
Harling puts on his shades.
Whip strides out the room wearing sunglasses.
A Band-Aid on his forehead and dressed in a suit.
Charlie and Hugh follow behind him.
They enter an elevator with a woman and a little girl.
The girl stares at Whip as Hugh hands him a handkerchief.
Whip tilts his head back and presses the cloth to his nostril.
He removes his glasses and looks at his reflection on the elevator ceiling.
He lowers his gaze to the little girl.
In the hearing room, cell phone footage of the plane crash is played on a large screen.
The cell phone footage ends.
Whip shifts in his seat.
Whip sips some water.
Ellen presses a remote.
She rises and walks around the table at the head of the room.
She projects an image on two giant screens.
Ellen faces Whip in the middle of the room.
Ellen slips on her glasses and checks her notes as Whip glances at Hugh and Charlie.
The evidence appears on screen.
Ellen nods and leafs through a file.
Charlie and Hugh share a glance.
Whip gazes at an enlarged photograph of Katerina on the screen.
Whip rolls his tongue and looks briefly at Hugh and Charlie.
Whip studies Katerina's smiling face with pressed lips.
He takes a sip of water.
Ellen nods.
Whip looks firmly at Ellen.
His face shiny with perspiration.
Whip looks down.
His eye's heavy.
Ellen closes her file and slowly walks to her seat.
Whip sits facing a group of inmates in an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting.
Some inmates smile.
Whip shuts his eyes.
A smile plays on his lips.
Whip sits writing at his desk in his cell.
A board hangs above the desk covered in photographs and cards.
Whip closes a bound book and tosses his glasses on it.
Photos of Will and Deana standing next to a Christmas tree.
Nicole and Whip celebrating with other AA members.
And the photo Whip took of Nicole at his house covers the board.
In between the photos hangs a copy of the serenity prayer.
Outside, a guard punches in a code and a wired gate opens letting Whip through.
Whip smiles as he walks towards Will seated at a desk.
They hug.
They are seated at a table.
Will opens a writing pad.
Whip shifts, his hands resting on the table.
He lowers his eyes.
Will turns on his cell phone recorder.
Whip's brow furrows, then he smiles.
Lightning flashes behind it, as it moves forward.
A human eye.
Harry Potter's bloodied face.
A host of press photographers flash their cameras repeatedly at the dazed looking Harry and a tall, white-haired old man with a long white beard, Professor Dumbledore.
He puts his left arm protectively around Harry's shoulder, and steers him through the crowd.
Dumbledore wears two rings on his left hand.
Reflected in the glass of a tall office building, the brooding storm clouds settle over the City of London.
The staff on one of the upper floors gather at the windows, and look out in alarm, as the menacing clouds drift ever closer.
Lightening flashes behind the clouds.
They billow forward in the shape of a skull, from which three dark trails of smoke appear.
They swoop through the clouds, down towards the Thames, then across Trafalgar Square.
They sweep up Charing Cross Road, moving swiftly past Leicester Square tube station.
Traveling down narrow alleys, back streets, and through solid walls, they hurtle into Diagon Alley, where they swoop into a shop.
It bursts into flames.
People lie injured, as the Death Eaters emerge from the shop, one holding a man with a bag over his head.
Two wear metal masks.
The third has a long, thin face and a beard.
They zoom away, and weave over and under the Millennium Bridge.
It tilts and sways, flinging people against the parapets.
They cling on, desperately.
Steel supports are ripped away.
Those on the undulating bridge run in panic.
The remaining supports give way, and the bridge crashes into the murky waters of the Thames.
The three trails of smoke rise from the river, and cross each other in a blur.
Surbiton Railway Station.
A pretty waitress.
He puts down the paper.
She smiles at him, starts to walk away.
He spins round.
Harry smiles at the waitress.
As she goes, he cups his hand over his mouth.
He sniffs his breath, then pops a mint in his mouth.
A train flashes through the station.
Harry slowly rises and walks to a window.
A light flickers on the platform opposite.
He uses his sleeve to wipe condensation from the glass.
Another train passes.
Harry's eyes are fixed on the opposite platform.
As the train disappears, he sees Professor Dumbledore standing in front of a billboard advertising Divine Magic Perfume.
Harry smiles and crosses over to join him.
Dumbledore stares at the Divine Magic billboard.
Dumbledore has a blackened hand.
Harry sees the waitress leave the cafe.
Harry holds Dumbledore's left arm.
Harry's face contorts as they spin.
They're on a street.
Dumbledore walks past a market cross.
Harry follows him down the dark street.
They stop outside a detached house.
The front door is off its hinges.
As they enter the house, Dumbledore holds his wand in his undamaged left hand.
The tips of their wands glow like torches.
The house is in a mess.
Pictures hang at angles.
There are scratches on a door frame.
Harry and Dumbledore enter the sitting room, where the furniture is toppled over.
The room has been completely trashed.
As Harry stares down at the paper, a spot of blood drops onto it.
Harry looks up.
Plaster has broken away, revealing bloodstained rafters.
A drop lands on his forehead.
Dumbledore wipes the blood off Harry's forehead with a finger, and tastes it with the tip of his tongue.
Dumbledore glances suspiciously around the room.
He fixes his eyes on an over-stuffed comfy armchair and slowly walks towards it.
Harry follows.
Dumbledore prods the armchair with his wand.
A man in disguise.
He spots Harry.
Dumbledore sweeps his wand over the room.
Bits of broken glass fly towards a shattered chandelier.
It re-hangs itself from the ceiling.
Harry steps aside, as a vinyl disk returns to a record player.
Books fly back onto shelves, and a grand piano rights itself.
The missing plaster renews itself on the ceiling, and Harry smiles.
He looks down at his feet.
Trapped under his trainer is a piece from the chandelier.
He raises his foot, and it zooms up to its rightful place.
Horace wears pajamas made from upholstery fabric.
He grins at Harry.
Harry crosses over to a collection of framed, moving photographs.
A group of them raise glasses.
Dumbledore leaves.
Harry glances at Horace Slughorn, then goes out.
As they walk down the path, Slughorn comes after them.
In the street.
Dumbledore holds out his arm.
Harry braces himself.
Dust rises as they apparate.
Alone, Harry lands in a stream.
Shaking water from his trainers, he trudges through a reed bed.
He smiles when he recognizes the Weasley house.
He sees Ginny in an upstairs window.
Coming downstairs, Ginny spots Harry's trunk and white owl.
On the stairs.
Ginny runs to Harry and they hug warmly.
As they part, they gaze at each other.
Hermione runs up.
Ron touches Hermione's cheek.
Harry regards Ron and Hermione with interest.
Harry, Hermione, and Ron.
They are sitting on the floor, around a tray set on a stool.
In a dingy, wet part of town, Draco's mother Narcissa walks along a narrow alley, with Bellatrix Lestrange.
They wait for children to cycle past.
Then, Narcissa steps out onto a street and knocks at a door.
The two women wait outside in the rain.
A face peers at them through the glass panel in the door.
A round-faced man, Wormtail, lets them into Severus Snape's study.
Bellatrix sets down the ornament.
She glares at Snape.
Narcissa glances at her sister then looks anxiously back to Snape.
Narcissa stands.
They both stare at Bellatrix.
Bellatrix steps towards Snape.
She's behind him.
She walks away.
Bellatrix stares, open-mouthed.
Narcissa and Snape grasp each other's right wrist.
Bellatrix waves her wand, and a glowing cord binds the wrists together.
Narcissa stares unwaveringly at Snape.
Bellatrix stands close to him.
The cord binding their wrists fades and disappears.
Narcissa releases her grip, and flexes her wrist.
A shop, Pieces of Modern Magic.
Outside, a mechanical man makes the rabbit on his head disappear under a big top hat.
The Weasly twins.
A boy looks sick.
Ron watches a mechanical toy of Dolores Umbridge balancing on a tightrope.
A boy walks up a wall.
Harry spots a strange substance.
The twins give him some.
A handsome youth, Cormac, smiles at Hermione.
She puts down the love potion.
Ron turns to Hermione and Harry.
They pass Lavender, a girl with curly hair.
Lavender watches him go.
Outside, a little dragon breathes flames.
It's roasting chestnuts.
A boy buys some.
He slides down a chute into a bag.
They're in Diagon Alley.
They enter the empty and burned out shop the Death Eaters attacked.
Harry leads the way, followed by Ron, then Hermione.
Ron stops by a window and looks out.
Narcissa and Draco look around furtively before entering a narrow alley.
The trio leave Ollivander's and peek round the corner, where there's a wanted poster for Fenrir Greyback: The beardy Death-eater who attacked the shop.
They follow the Malfoys down the gloomy alleyway.
The Malfoys descend steps to a shop with a sign above its door, Borgin and Burke.
Narcissa strides in, and Draco follows.
The three friends look up, as a light comes on in an arched window in the roof at the rear of the shop.
They climb onto an adjoining roof and watch, as the Malfoys are led across a courtyard below into a high room.
It reaches from the ground floor to the roof.
They see Draco running his hands over a tall, triangular, embossed wooden cabinet.
Several figures approach Draco.
Harry hauls himself up to get a better view.
and Narcissa kisses her son's cheek.
someone appears at a window.
Harry, Hermione and Ron duck down, as a thin-faced man with a beard looks out.
He lowers the blind.
Harry looks up and breathes a sigh of relief.
The Hogwarts Express chugs through barren moorland.
Luna holds magazines.
Ginny has a Pygmy Puff.
Ginny reads the cover.
Luna saunters along the corridor with her magazines.
Further back on the train, Hermione, Harry and Ron have a compartment to themselves.
Harry gets up.
He takes something from the overhead luggage rack, goes out of the compartment, and walks along the corridor, hiding it behind his back.
The train steams across vast, brown landscape, illuminated by the evening sun.
Harry stops to let two girls pass, and sees Draco in an open carriage with seats either side.
Harry looks thoughtful.
He glances down at the Peruvian Darkness Powder in his hand.
Suddenly darkness engulfs the carriage.
Summoned by Pansy and Blaise, a surly boy with short cropped hair, Draco sits down opposite them.
Draco glances up and sees his briefcase move slightly on the luggage rack.
Hagrid stands swinging a lantern on the Hogwarts platform as the express pulls up.
Its headlight cuts through the darkness.
Pansy and Blaise wait for Draco at the carriage door, finally leave their compartment.
Ron and Hermione leave their compartment.
Draco pulls his briefcase from the luggage rack and heads for the door to the next carriage.
He slides it shut.
He pulls down the blind.
All the blinds close.
Something falls from the rack and crashes to the floor.
Draco pulls off the invisibility cloak, revealing Harry immobilized and staring.
He stamps on the helpless Harry.
Draco flings the invisibility cloak back over Harry and walks out of the carriage.
He steps onto the almost deserted platform and glances along it.
Steam rises as he walks away.
Someone walks through the train viewing it, as if through a rose-tinted kaleidoscope.
Pink and mauve shapes swirl.
The carriage door opens.
It's Luna, wearing the blue and white Spectrespecs, advertised on the quibbler.
She sees a cloud of silvery dust hovering above the floor and pulls out her wand.
The invisibility cloak is removed and Harry snaps out of the immobility spell.
Luna raises her specs.
Harry's nose is broken and bloody.
They reach the school gates.
Flitwick erects an invisible shield across the gates.
Luna and Harry watch as Draco snatches his walking stick from Filch.
Draco sees Harry and smirks.
He walks away.
Snape turns on his heel and follows him.
She raises her wand.
Harry's swollen and misshapen nose is back to normal.
There's still blood on his upper lip, chin, and t-shirt.
In the Great Hall, Ron is guzzling jelly and cream.
Hermione hits him with a book.
Harry is walking towards them.
Dumbledore steps up to the lectern, a gilded owl on the front of it stretches its wings.
Ginny wipes blood from Harry's face.
Professor Slughorn in gown and mortarboard acknowledges the applause.
Draco stares glumly ahead while Slytherins celebrate around him.
The students glance at one another.
Draco rests his chin on his hand, lost in thought.
Draco remained seated.
Professor McGonagall is in the corridor.
Harry and Ron stand by the wall, laughing.
He leaves Ron and goes to McGonagall.
McGonagall shakes her head.
The potions class.
A hand shoots up.
She steps towards the potions.
Harry opens a cupboard door.
He puts the lid on.
The girls near it step back.
Draco shows interest.
There are hand-written notes in the margins.
Ron tries to cut a Sopophorous bean.
It rolls away.
He tries again.
It shoots into the air.
Seamus stabs at his.
Slughorn catches one in midair.
Even Hermione's having problems.
Harry reads a note in his book.
It works.
He drips juice into his cauldron.
Frowning, Hermione refers to her book again.
Crabbe and Goyle have no success.
Seamus's cauldron flares up, blackening his face.
Harry follows the hand-written notes.
Green slime slithers from one girl's cauldron and plops onto the table.
Hermione looks more and more frustrated.
Harry pours in a clear liquid.
Professor Slughorn drops a leaf into Harry's brewing pot.
Professor Slughorn leads the applause for Harry.
Draco and his Slytherin friends don't join in.
In his study, Professor Dumbledore examines a book with a hole burnt in it.
He places a ring in the hole and closes the book in a drawer.
A cabinet of vials.
He selects one.
Harry gingerly takes the vial.
He goes to a pensive, a hovering shallow metal basin.
He glances at the elderly professor who nods.
Harry pours the contents of the vial into the basin.
Dumbledore flicks his hand in the air and the lights dim.
As Harry plunges his face into the basin, wispy trails of black smoke flow towards its base.
Harry sees a street with a large building straight ahead.
A figure carrying an umbrella marches towards the building.
A younger Dumbledore steps into the room.
An boy stares at him.
Dumbledore touches a wardrobe.
Shells and pebbles are linedinfront of the window edge, at the postcard of a craggy coastline.
Tom sits at a table.
The boy frowns and stares at Dumbledore.
The wardrobe by the door bursts into flames.
Tom removes a metal box from the burning wardrobe.
He opens the box and takes out small toys.
Dumbledore walks away from the sullen Tom.
Dumbledore stops.
Swirling black smoke consumes the image of the boy and Harry takes his face out of the pensive.
Harry keeps staring into the basin.
He takes a few deep breaths.
Harry nods and stares resolutely ahead.
Death Eaters hurtle through the clouds towards Hogwarts.
They hit the invisible shield and retreat.
Two birds in a cage hang in a shadowy corridor.
Draco Malfoy walks past them towards a wall covered with a tapestry of a unicorn.
He pauses.
Draco is in a cluttered room.
He looks around, tossing an apple.
He turns as he hears creaking behind him.
He hauls down a heavy cloth cover, revealing a tall triangular cabinet similar to the one in Borgin and Burke shop.
Draco studies it closely.
A lone student flies over the Quidditch stadium.
Harry and Ginny stand facing the Gryffindor triallists.
They all turn towards Ginny and Harry.
Ron stands stiffly wearing a protective leather helmet.
From the stands, Hermione waves to him.
Cormac swaggers up to Ron.
He catches a fly.
Cormac slaps Ron's arm and marches off.
Ron looks miserable.
Cormac flies confidently towards a circular goalpost.
Ron almost slips off his broomstick as he heads for the opposing goal.
Lavender watches Ron closely.
Cormac smirks as he catches Hermione's eye.
She glances away, then back.
The trials begin.
Two players collide and fall.
Holding a round leather Quaffle, Ginny aim's it at Cormac's goal.
He punches it away with his right hand, kicks another, and punches a third with his left hand.
He grabs hold of the next Quaffle.
It's Ron's turn to protect his goal.
He punches and kicks out wildly, deflecting shots, but a Quaffle unseats him.
He dangles from the end of his broomstick.
Lavender is up on her feet rooting for Ron.
He regains his seat on the broomstick, and watched by Hermione, clings on anxiously.
Two Chasers zoom past Harry.
Cormac smirks confidently.
Hermione whispers into her hand.
She smiles as Cormac is jerked sideways and the Quaffle flies past him through the goal.
A Quaffle is aimed at Ron who is swinging helplessly.
It hits his head and bounces away.
The Gryffindor common room.
Hermione pulls a face.
Ron glances across at Lavender who waves to him.
She glares at Ron.
Harry closes it and gets up.
Ginny grabs it from him.
Hermione and Ginny stare at Harry who shifts awkwardly.
Ginny tosses the book back to him, and he walks away.
Both girls watch him leave.
In his room, Harry sits at a table with the book open in front of him.
There are notes scribbled all over its pages.
They are walking in the snow.
Flitwick passes the trio.
The Three Broomsticks.
Harry sees Draco, who walks out.
Ron spots Ginny with Dean Thomas.
Hermione looks over at them.
Ginny and Dean kiss at their corner table.
He turns to Ron.
Ron clenches his jaw and scowls at Harry.
Ron leans on the table.
He raises his eyebrows, as he glances at Hermione.
He points to his upper lip.
Hermione wipes the butterbeer froth from her lip with her sleeve, then gazes at Ron.
On the way back, Leanne and Katie are walking ahead of them.
Hermione puts one arm over Harry's shoulder, the other over Ron's.
Ahead of them, Katie Bell lies on her back in the snow.
Her body is wrenched from side to side.
She shoots up into the air and hovers with arms outstretched, her mouth open in a muted scream.
She crashes down onto the snow and lies on her back, her head shaking.
Hagrid arrives on the scene.
They step aside, and the giant Hagrid picks Katie up.
Harry walks towards something lying on the ground.
A necklace of blue stones lies on the snow, tipped out of its box.
Harry folds back the wrapping paper.
Back inside its box, the necklace lies on a desk.
Professor McGonagall studies it, then turns to Leanne.
Hermione, Ron and Harry face McGonagall.
Snape arrives.
Snape waves his wand and the necklace rises into the air.
McGonagall looks at Snape.
The others stare at him.
Harry is the last to lower his gaze.
Harry lies on his bed with the Marauder's Map.
He sees Malfoy moving on it.
Ron's lying in bed with his hands behind his head.
Both boys look uneasy.
Harry takes off his glasses and puts them on the map on his bedside table.
Malfoy disappears from the map.
Professor Slughorn's supper party.
Twin girls look round at Hermione.
Everyone's enjoying dessert.
The door opens and Ginny comes in.
She's been crying.
Harry is the only one to stand as Ginny comes to the table.
He grins politely as he bends down to retrieve his napkin.
Hermione watches him.
Cormac, his eyes fixed on Hermione, sucks his little finger suggestively.
Embarrassed, she turns away.
Slughorn turns, and his eyes open wide.
Harry stares at the photographs.
Taken aback, Slughorn stands rooted to the spot.
Harry gives a faint smile.
The sand in the hourglass drifts in a slow spiral, from top to bottom.
It's held upright by snakes with green glass bodies and golden heads.
Ron is kitted out in his Quidditch gear, including his leather helmet.
He enters the Great Hall.
Looking totally miserable, he sits down in front of his breakfast plate, a fried egg on a square of dry toast, surrounded by four toast triangles.
Hermione smiles knowingly.
Harry turns away.
Lavender bounces up.
She goes.
Ron looks even more miserable.
He passes Ron a goblet.
Ron looks at Hermione and Harry.
Harry puts a glass vial in his pocket.
Ron lifts the goblet to his lips and drinks.
Hermione glares and Harry smiles.
Ron smiles broadly.
The two friends clasp hands over the table.
The game is played in a snowstorm.
Bound leather Quaffle zooms through the air, and is caught by a Slytherin Chaser.
His green cape flapping behind him, he joins his teammates, who flank him as they charge for goal.
Fending off Gryffindor players, they pass the Quaffle, until one hurls it towards the goal.
Ron swoops to save the shot.
His supporters are ecstatic.
In the air, Ron repulses wave after wave of Slytherin attacks.
Hermione shakes her head, but still looks torwards.
Gryffindor goes on the attack.
A Slytherin Beater whacks a Bludger towards an opponent, but misses and is himself knocked from his broomstick.
A shot on target for Gryffindor brings cheers from their supporters, and a renewed attack by Slytherin in a V formation.
The Quaffle zooms towards the goal.
Ron saves it.
His right fist raised in triumph, Ron looks down at the chanting crowd.
Hermione barely smiles.
Perfectly balanced on his broomstick, Ron raises both hands in the air.
In the Gryffindor common room, he stands on a table showered with red confetti.
Harry shows her the unopened vial of Liquid Luck.
He shakes his head.
Lavender flings her arms around Ron's neck, and kisses him passionately.
Harry grins.
Next to him, Hermione takes a deep breath.
As the kiss continues, she turns abruptly and walks out.
Harry sees her go and follows.
He hears sobbing in a dark corridor.
From the top of a spiral staircase, he sees Hermione sitting on the bottom step, weeping.
He walks down the steps, his shadow cast against the wall.
Charm birds fly all around Hermione.
She looks up at Harry.
He sits down beside her.
Ron and Lavender run into the cloister.
She tries to lead Ron away.
Hermione stands, her face grim.
The birds dive headlong to attack Ron.
He runs.
They splat against a wooden door in a drift of feathers.
Ron looks at Hermione in alarm and walks away.
She sinks down onto the step.
Hermione leans her head on Harry's shoulder.
Awkwardly, he puts his hand on her arm.
The celebration continues without Ron and Lavender, who run together up a flight of stairs.
Standing beside a tall window, they move closer and kiss again.
Draco Malfoy stands alone, high up on the astronomy tower.
He leans on the balustrade and looks out over the school.
Snow falls gently on the spires and roofs of Hogwarts.
The cloisters are decorated with greenery.
A raven-haired girl smiles.
Luna with a knee-length tiered dress of pale pink silk, with chiffon ruffles round the neckline, skirt, and sleeves.
Harry escorts her.
They walk past a window bay, where Draco sits alone, deep in thought.
His face grim, Draco walks along the upstairs corridor and stops.
He closes his eyes.
In the cluttered room, he pulls the heavy cloth from the cabinet.
He opens the cabinet and places an apple inside.
He opens the cabinet.
The apple has gone.
He closes the cabinet again.
He opens the door a third time.
The apple has returned.
A large bite has been taken out.
At the party.
Harry has his photograph taken with Slughorn.
Harry turns.
Wearing a waiter's jacket, Neville walks away.
Harry spots Hermione slipping into a curtain.
He pulls back the silk drapes to join her.
She scuttles away, as Cormac comes through the drapes.
Snape opens the curtains.
Cormac throws up at his feet.
Snape glares at him.
Snape walks away.
Filch manhandles Draco into the room.
Draco glares at Snape.
A dark corridor.
Snape has Draco pinned against a wall.
Harry overhears them from an adjoining corridor.
The Hogwarts Express plows through snow-covered countryside.
She breathes on the glass then draws, with her finger, the shape of a heart with an arrow through it.
She looks lovingly at Ron, whose expression glazes over.
She breathes on her love heart, then whispers though the closed door.
Ron looks up as Hermione comes to the door.
She sees the love heart.
Ron looks confused.
They both look up at the fading love heart.
Christmas at the Weasleys'.
Nymphadora Tonks indicates to Harry to remain quiet.
Tonks walks away and Remus Lupin follows her, leaving Harry with Mr. Weasley.
Ginny sits beside Harry with a plate of dainty mince pies.
Mr. Weasley goes.
She holds out a pie.
He takes a bite from the pie she's holding.
Ron plunks down between them with a plate of bigger mince pies.
Looking awkward, he turns to Harry and holds out the plate.
Ron takes one and bites into it.
Harry's with Mr. Weasley in his shed.
Harry looks at him thoughtfully.
Later, the front door of the house opens.
Remus walks out, followed by Tonks.
Remus looks out into the night.
Tonks steps forward with a concerned expression.
Wearing a pink dressing gown, Ginny finds Harry sitting on the stairs.
He stands up.
She bends down and fastens the lace on his trainer.
Ginny rises.
They stand close to eachother.
They lean closer.
A ball of fire hurtles to the ground, creating a flaming circle around the house.
In a swirl of black, Bellatrix appears.
Harry races out of the house.
She laughs and sprints away.
Harry dashes through a gap in the flames.
It closes, preventing Remus giving chase.
Tonks tries to control the flames with her wand.
Ginny runs out.
Ginny leaps through the flames.
Harry chases Bellatrix through the tall reeds.
Ginny follows.
Harry stands still, surrounded by the swaying reeds.
Hearing something, he starts to run again.
Ginny is a little way behind.
She ploughs through the undergrowth, ending up ankle-deep in water.
She hears movement.
She steps back as a figure emerges from the reeds.
The figure is tall with a thin face and beard.
He stops and smiles menacingly.
Harry appears behind Ginny and raises his wand.
Greyback deflects the spell.
He flies up in a spiral of black smoke.
Ginny and Harry turn in circles, but can see no sign of him.
They take refuge on a small island of sand.
Bellatrix spots them.
Remus and Tonks are still searching.
On their tiny island, Ginny and Harry fend off attacks with their wands.
Tonks, Remus, and Mr. Weasley join them on the island.
They form a circle, back-to-back, wands poised.
Bellatrix watches them.
Greyback glances at Bellatrix.
They change form, and shoot into the sky, the cloud of black spell.
They attack the Weasley house, which bursts into flames.
Mr. Weasley sprints off.
He finds his family safe, watching their house burn.
He puts an arm around his wife.
The others join them.
And they all watch helplessly, as the Weasley house is engulfed in flames.
Lavender puts a heart pendant round Ron's neck.
Hermione watches Lavender simpering over Ron.
She heads back the way they came.
Harry nods to Ron, then walks along the corridor.
Lavender leaps on Ron's back and he staggers away with her.
Professor Dumbledore's cabinet of vials.
Harry plunges his face into the pensive.
Teenage Tom Riddle at a Slughorn tea party.
Slughorn smiles uneasily.
Tom taps the hourglass.
The memory stops.
Harry straightens up.
Dumbledore dips his hand into the pensive.
Harry stands solemnly in front of Dumbledore, and nods.
The Potions class leave.
Slughorn turns and sees Harry.
Slughorn shifts uneasily.
On his way out, Slughorn stops, spins round and stares at Harry, who doesn't flinch.
He stomps out.
Slughorn closes the spyhole and locks the door.
Harry finds Ron in the boy's dormitory.
He's sitting on the floor, gazing dreamily out of the window.
Ron holds a gift box.
Harry moves away, as Ron leans closer.
Ron throws down the box, which has a heart on it.
Harry stares at Ron, who smiles inanely, a far away look in his eyes.
As Ron sits on the floor and gazes up at the moon, Harry reads the card which came with the chocolates.
He grins and crosses to Ron.
Little hearts float from it.
Ron embraces Slughorn.
Harry prises him off.
Ron sits on the back of the sofa and falls off.
Slughorn gives him a potion.
Ron drinks.
The inane, fixed smile fades.
He looks quizzically up at Harry.
He fills three glasses.
Ron drinks and collapses, foaming at the mouth.
Harry runs to Slughorn's potion cabinet, as Ron convulses on the floor.
He puts one in Ron's mouth.
He leans over Ron, who lies on his back, no longer breathing.
Slughorn sits on a chair, looking anxious.
At last, Ron comes round.
Ron sits up, then lies back weakly on the floor.
In the infirmary, Ginny and Hermione sit beside Ron's bed, as Madam Pomfrey checks his temperature.
Harry turns as a group of staff come in.
Lavender rushes in.
She sees Hermione at Ron's bedside.
Lavender leans closer.
Lavender runs out, as Hermione takes Ron's hand.
McGonagall, Dumbledore and Snape leave.
Ginny turns to Harry.
Madame Pomfrey leaves.
Hermione catches Harry's eye.
They exchange a smile.
Harry is the last to leave the ward.
Sitting on Ron's bed, Hermione strengthens her grip on his hand with a sigh of contentment.
The shadow of a figure climbing stairs is cast on a wall.
Going up the spiral staircase, Harry spots the figure through an archway: it's Draco Malfoy.
Harry steps forward and watches him then follows.
Draco leaves the upper corridor with the bird cage hangs, now only one bird remains in the cage.
Draco stands still and closes his eyes.
When Harry rounds the corner, Draco has disappeared.
In the cluttered room, Draco holds the heavy cloth from the cabinet.
He's holding the missing bird.
He closes the bird inside the cabinet and picks a single feather off his cuff.
Draco holds it up to the light.
Draco opens the cabine:
the bird has gone.
Rain pours down on the Borgin and Burke shop sign.
Through the dusty arched window at the rear of the shop a dim light reveals the triangular cabinet, its door firmly closed.
Draco nervously opens his cabinet door.
He looks inside:
The bird is dead.
Draco stares at its lifeless body and frowns.
Draco sobs.
Lavender sits in the great hall glaring at Ron.
Clenching his wand, he sits beside Hermione, snowflakes start to fall.
Ron looks puzzled.
Ron, Hermione, and Harry look across at Lavender, who lifts her chin and grits her teeth.
Harry's eyes flit from Ron to Hermione and back again.
Hermione looks down.
Harry reads a note scrawled in his advanced potion book
Harry jumps to his feet.
He picks up his book then marches up the hall to Katie.
She looks over his shoulder and stares.
Harry turns and sees Draco watching them.
Draco backs away, turns, and Harry's out.
Katie walks away with her friend.
Harry marches down the great hall.
Draco makes his way upstairs.
Harry pushes his way through a group of students.
Draco strides along the upstairs corridor where the bird cage is now empty.
Harry isn't far behind.
Loosening his tie, Draco rushes into the boy lavatories, leans over a basin then pulls off his sweater.
Turning on a tap, he studies his distraught face in a mirror.
His hair is disheveled.
He splashes water on his ashen face.
Harry watches the sobbing Draco from the doorway.
Draco draws his wand and cast a spell.
Harry responds.
Draco casts another.
They hide at each of the cubicles.
Draco appears round and ducks back.
Harry peeks out, his image reflected in a mirror.
The two of them crawl on the floor, peering underneath the cubicles.
Draco misses.
Harry gets up and aims his wand.
Draco stumbles back and falls into the water accumulating on the floor from a burst pipe.
His book in one hand, his wand in the other, Harry slowly walks the length of the cubicles.
He rounds the corner and sees Draco sprawled on his back.
Shoked, Harry stumbles forward and sees blood oozing into the water.
Bloodstains spread over Draco's white shirt.
Snape strides in and brushes past Harry.
He stands over Draco.
Snape glares at Harry, who avoids his gaze and Harry's off.
Snape kneels.
The blood recedes.
The bloodstains disappear.
In the Gryffindor common room, the potions book lies on the table in front of Harry.
Ginny, Hermione, and Ron are silhouetted against the light from a lead-paned window.
Ginny crosses to Harry and sits beside him.
Harry nods.
Standing in front of the unicorn tapestry, Harry takes Ginny's outstretched hand and grips it firmly.
Inside the cluttered room.
As Ginny leads him forward, they are reflected in the mirror behind.
They wander through the Room of Requirement.
The sound comes from the triangular of a cabinet covered with the heavy cloth.
Harry approaches.
The ends of the cloth don't quite meet.
Through the gap, Harry sees the door.
A bird flies out and settles on a stone shelf.
Harry gazes at Ginny.
She walks towards him and stands close.
They exchanged a long look.
She glances at the book and takes it out of his hand.
He keeps looking at her.
She backs away and he closes his eyes.
Harry stands rooted to the spot, his breathing shallow.
He swallows hard but his eyes remain shut.
Ginny returns, steps close to Harry, and kisses him gently on the lips.
He responds.
Harry smiles then open his eyes.
Ginny has disappeared.
He walks slowly along a corridor lost in thought.
Ron comes up.
Professor Slughorn stops in front of them.
Slughorn hurries away.
In the common room, Harry uncorks the vial of Liquid Luck.
Watched by Hermione and Ron, he empties its contents into his mouth.
They look at him as he stares into the distance.
They get to their feet.
Harry grins.
Harry turns to them.
He passes students.
Hermione and Ron look confused.
A greenhouse window is forced open.
Slughorn's head appears.
Holding a small tin and a pair of scissors, he attempts to cut a piece of plant.
It waves its vine-like tentacles.
Harry walks past and spots him.
He approaches and gives Slughorn a fright.
He walks away.
Slughorn glances around furtively.
Harry walks up a grassy hillock.
Slughorn lags a little way behind.
Ahead, he sees Hagrid, his dog, and Harry by the corpse of a colossal spider.
Harry demonstrates with his fingers.
A bit of spider of breaks off.
Slughorn drops it on the ground.
Slughorn looks up at the giant Hagrid.
Slughorn bows his head and closes his eyes.
In Hagrid's cottage.
Harry applauds the tipsy duo.
Hagrid's eyes closed and his head tilts back.
It thuds against the high-backed chair.
Harry grins.
Slughorn looks across the room at Harry.
His smile fades.
Harry gulps and stares at the old man.
The scar on his forehead.
He stands up.
Wide eyed, Slughorn gazes at the boy standing before him.
He blinks and his eyes moisten.
Slughorn presses the tip of his wand against his temple.
He closes his eyes then pulls the wand away.
Attached to it is a wisp of vapor, the memory.
His hand shaking, he holds up a small test tube.
As he inverts the wand, Harry steady Slughorn's hand.
The memory drops into the container.
In his study, Dumbledore pours it into the pensive.
The memory begins with the hour glass.
The teenage Tom Riddle turns away from Slughorn and walks towards the fire, hands behind his back.
Tom fiddles with a ring on his finger.
He turns to face Slughorn.
Slughorn looks into the boy's cold eyes.
The memory ends.
Dumbledore holds up a hand to silence Harry.
Looking troubled, the professor walks away from the pensive.
He crosses his study and sinks down onto a short flight of steps.
Dumbledore hurries to his desk.
He holds it up.
Harry touches the ring.
It spins.
Images of the teenage Tom, the boy in the orphanage, the pebbles on the window ledge, the postcard of the coast, Voldemort.
The ring stops spinning.
Harry flexes his neck.
Dumbledore moves around the desk and looks closely at Harry.
Harry breathes deeply.
Snape abruptly leaves the astronomy tower.
Descending the stairs, he meets Harry who has overheard his exchange with Dumbledore.
He stops in front of Harry for a moment then continues his descent.
Harry climbs up to the upper platform.
Harry rubs his chin self-consciously.
They walk to the balustrade.
Harry nods.
Harry hesitates.
Harry places his hand on Dumbledore's arm and they shoot off the tower.
White-tipped waves roll towards a pinnacle rising out of the sea.
Harry and Dumbledore stand on top of it.
Waves crash against the pinnacle and the imposing coastline in front of them.
The same craggy cliff as on Tom Riddle's postcard.
Dark clouds scattered behind them, spray and spume washed over them.
Dumbledore's hair and beard are buffeted by the strong wind but his eyes affixed on an inverted v-shaped fissure in the cliff face.
Harry and Dumbledore are inside a rocky cavern.
Dumbledore sharpens a knife against a rock.
He pierces his right hand with the knife.
Harry looks at the wound.
Dumbledore smears his bloodied hand across the rock face.
It starts to crumble.
He steps back beside Harry and they both watch.
Using their wands as torches, they enter a previously- hidden tunnel.
They approach a lake.
They look out across the water.
Their wands reflected in the dark surface.
Dumbledore sends a ball of light across the lake, it rises and falls over the surface of the water then flares up illuminating a tiny island in the distance.
Dumbledore sets a foot on a half-submerged crystalline rock.
He stretches out his left hand over the water.
The lake at his feet bubbles and churns.
Something moves amidst the frothing waters.
A length of chain leaps up into Dumbledore's hands.
He passes the end of the chain to Harry who starts to pull on it.
They watch, as the chain lifts something out of the water.
the carved prow of a small boat rises in front of them.
Harry tugs with greater vigor, hauling the boat towards them.
The boat slowly carries them across the still water towards the island.
Reaching it, they scramble out onto the translucent rock.
A dip in a rock pedestal forms a crystal basin filled with liquid.
Dumbledore passes his hand over the shimmering surface.
He looks up with a start.
Using a large shell as a cup, Dumbledore fills it with the liquid and drinks.
His eyes closed, he drains the shell then opens his eyes and shudders.
Dumbledore steps back from the basin and sits down with difficulty.
Dumbledore covers his ear with his blackened right hand.
Harry picks up the shell and steps over to the basin.
He scoops up more liquid, returns to Dumbledore, and helps him drink.
Harry fills the shell again.
Harry returns again and again, forcing the liquid into Dumbledore's mouth.
The basin is almost empty.
His eyes half closed, Dumbledore presses his lips together.
Reluctantly, he opens his mouth.
He opens his mouth.
Harry steps back.
Dumbledore raises his head and opens his eyes wide.
Harry still holds the empty shell.
Dumbledore smacks his lips.
Harry returns to the basin.
He picks up a locket and chain lying at the bottom.
Harry raises his wand.
Water appears in the basin.
Harry scoops desperately but the shell wouldn't fill.
Harry turns and looks at the lake.
He crumbles down over the rocks towards the water.
Holding onto a rock for support, he reaches down with the shell.
Dumbledore's ball of light sinks under the surface, darkness.
Harry wields his wand.
The tip of his wand glows.
Harry clenches his teeth, grips the wand with the hand he's using as support, and leans forward to dip the shell into the lake.
He fills it to the brim.
A bony hand shoots from the water and grabs his arm.
He wrestles free.
The water seethes all around the island.
The light brightens and Harry sees naked emaciated corpses clambering out of the water towards him.
He lashes out at them.
Dumbledore feebly tries to reach his own wand.
Scores of corpses swarm onto the tiny island and attack Harry.
He's dragged under water.
A corpse wraps its arms around Harry from behind.
He grapples with it as they sink deeper and deeper.
Above the surface, Harry sees flames, balls of fire streak through the water.
The creature releases Harry and he surfaces inside a circle of fire.
Dumbledore is on his feet flourishing his wand around his head, whipping up the fire.
The corpse retreats from the flames.
Harry comes back onto the island.
Harry helps Dumbledore back to the boat.
The flames part, a clear channel of water lies ahead.
Draco Malfoy lies in bed wide awake.
He gets up.
The lights in Borgin and Burke shop go out.
Bellatrix leads a group through the courtyard to the room at the rear.
She opens the door of the embossed cabinet.
Filch stands guard on the school battlements.
Draco marches unnoticed along a corridor.
Professor McGonagall leans out of a stone archway.
She looks out anxiously at the menacing clouds.
Snape looks out into the storm.
In the Room of Requirement, Draco pulls the heavy cloth from the cabinet.
He steps back and watches.
The door handle turns.
The cabinet opens, black smoke filters out.
Draco walks quickly away.
Bellatrix, Greyback, and two death eaters with metal masks emerge from the smoke.
Bellatrix smirks.
The astronomy tower.
Harry walks away then stops.
He looks back at Dumbledore.
Harry hides as someone passes on the stairs.
The figure climbs to the upper platform and points his wand at Dumbledore.
Harry watches from below.
Draco pulls back his sleeve to show the Death Eater mark on his arm.
Dumbledore's wand falls.
Still hidden, Harry sees Bellatrix, Greyback and the two Death Eaters race to the upper platform.
Bellatrix faces Dumbledore.
Draco still has his wand raised.
Snape's behind Harry.
Snape enters the upper platform.
Dumbledore glances down and catches Harry's eye.
Snape looks eyes with Dumbledore, Bellatrix glares.
Dumbledore's eyes flicker.
Harry watches in horror as Dumbledore is flung backwards over the balustrade.
The white-haired professor seems to float gently downwards.
Snape grabs the distraught Draco.
Bellatrix is jubilant.
The shape of a skull appears in the dark clouds.
Snape rushes Draco down the tower's spiral staircase.
Harry follows, as Snape leads the death eaters and the ashen-faced Draco through the school corridors.
Bellatrix creates havoc as she strides along a table top in the Great Hall.
An Auror is thrown aside.
Bellatrix aims her wand at the huge windows.
They explode and the candles are snuffed out.
Draco, Snape, and the Death Eaters stride through the forest towards Hagrid's cottage.
Harry follows.
Bellatrix sets fire to the cottage.
Harry aims his wand.
Harry falls.
Bellatrix licks her lips then saunters away.
Illuminated by the flames from the burning cottage, Snape stands alone.
Harry lies on his back on the hillside.
Snape turns away as Harry gets to his feet.
Harry staggers forward.
Snape deflects the spell.
Harry crashes to the ground.
Snape walks over to him.
Trembling, Harry looks up at Snape, who kicks Harry's wand from his hand.
Harry lies motionless on the grassy hillside.
Snape hurries away past the burning cottage below him.
Harry looks up at the glowering clouds forming the shape of a skull.
Harry strides through the school courtyard followed by Hagrid.
He pushes past students and teachers.
Professor McGonagall, Hermione, Ginny, and Ron stand at the front of the crowd.
Harry kneels beside Dumbledore's body.
He leans forward and gently touches Dumbledore's cheek.
The Horcrux.
Harry gently places his hand on Dumbledore's heart.
Ginny walks forward and kneels down beside Harry.
He rests his head on her shoulder.
A tear rolls down Hermione's cheek.
Professor McGonagall raises her wand high above her head.
The tip of it glows as it points up towards the skull- shaped cloud.
Pomfrey raises her wand then Luna.
One after another, everyone does the same.
Wand after wand points upwards, the tip of each one glowing like a star.
Grief-stricken, the staff and students stand in solemn silence.
Dumbledore lies before them, his face serene and peaceful.
As the wands glow more brightly, light bursts through the clouds and the skull disappears.
Harry takes his hand from Dumbledore's heart.
His head on Ginny's shoulder, Harry weeps.
Sunlight streams in through the damaged window of the Great Hall.
The long tables are bare, the seats and benches are empty.
The door of Dumbledore's study opens and Harry steps inside.
It, too, is bathed in sunlight.
Harry walks towards Dumbledore's desk.
Apair of half-moon spectacles lies on an open book.
He stands and stares at the high-back chair with its padded leather arms, which sits empty behind the desk.
He picks up Dumbledore's intricately-carved elder wand.
Professor McGonagall enters.
Harry rushes past her.
Harry notices a new portrait.
It's of Dumbledore dozing in his high-back chair, his head new portrait: on one side, his eyes closed.
Harry leaves the study.
In the astronomy tower.
Leaning on the balustrade, he drops the locket into Hermione's hand.
She opens the locket.
Inside is a neatly folded piece of paper.
She unfolds it.
Ron is sitting behind them.
He gives a wry smile.
Her head inclined to one side, she looks into his face.
They remain side by side at the balustrade, the breeze ruffling their hair.
Ron stays seated behind them.
They look up as Dumbledore's fiery red phoenix with golden markings on the underside of its wings appears in the sky.
They turn to watch as it soars gracefully around the tower.
Harry and Hermione look out over the balustrade and watch as the bird flies away from Hogwarts.
A young blond boy sits cross-legged in front of the large wooden TV set on screen in black and white.
Seated guests clap as a movie clip plays at an award ceremony.
A man seated nearby.
Sophie is slender and beautiful.
A woman on stage reads her name.
Seated beside a gob smacked Sophie.
Sidney cracks a wide smile and claps.
Shapely raven-haired Sophie rises from her seat,
Sidney turns to the camera.
A smartly dressed man and woman rise from a nearby table.
Camera phone pictures of Ricky Gervais.
Sidney stands at a red rope barrier.
He has a pig on a lead.
She looks around nervously.
He grins as she lifts the barrier.
Alison leads Sidney and the pig away.
The Haymarket Hotel.
Sidney is dressed as a waiter with a fake mustache.
Britney wags her curly tail.
Sidney tosses her a canape, and she snaffles it down.
And obscuring his face with a tray of canapes, he saunters into the party past the Nazi Clipboard woman.
He sits by a pool chatting with Thandie Newton.
The brown haired hotel manager knocks on Sidney's room door.
He enters to find that the room has been trashed.
Chocolates and booze bottles litter the floor by the open fridge.
And upturned furniture is strewn about the room.
Unseen, Britney trots out of the hotel room and scurries down a corridor to a lift.
The electric doors close.
Thandie smiles coyly.
She bursts out laughing and pats him at the thigh.
Britney wanders out of the lift.
Thandie smiles flirtatiously.
He sips champagne.
She gives him a sultry look, and he grins.
As he lets out a bashful sigh disturbing the fake mustache.
Noticing this, Thandie frowns.
Britney urinates on a lady's red high heels.
The PR Nazi pushes through the crowd.
Sidney spots Britney.
Thandie stands.
Bouncers approach.
Sidney scampers.
The PR Nazi watches hawkishly.
Thandie shrugs.
Two bouncers give chase.
a woman is Pushed away.
He takes a running jump and a photographer snaps him mid- flight.
The postmodern review having a photo from the newspaper in which Clint Eastwood has him in a headlock.
He hears the phone ringing, and staff arguing in the next room.
Holding a lit cigarette, Sydney strides into his busy living room come office.
A cover of postmodern review disparages Sharp's editor.
The writers have gathered in a frenzy to watch the fight brew.
The women flaunt and flip the fax machine over.
An aeroplane worse through the blue sky.
Night, the glimmer of a taxi staring out the window as he's swept through.
He gazes, wide-eyed, at a sign over the entrance of a theater.
Cruises through Chinatown.
His smile fades as he sees a helicopter.
Over an adjacent street to the sound of gunshots.
And stares straight ahead.
The taxi drops him and his luggage up the street with shops with graffiti'd shutters.
He stares up at a rundown tenement building, then lowers his eyes to see a grimy kebab by the name of Kebab Palace.
Mrs. Kowalski leads Sydney into his grotty studio apartment.
Inside, she slaps him.
She leaves with her nose in the air.
Tiles on the dance floor light up as he struts from one disinterested group of girls to another, waving his hands and moving his pelvis.
He wiggles his backside and leaps about, the girls retreat from him wildly, and stop.
He puffs out his cheek and walks off, the dance floor lights up again.
On the street outside, Sydney passes a leggy blonde in a green.
He glances over his shoulder to see her enter a bar with a red wood paneled exterior.
Turning on his heel, he hastily follows her inside.
The blonde heads for the bar.
Sydney enters and adjusts his jacket before confidently sidling up beside her.
Affecting a suave smile, he takes his seat facing her and leans on the bar.
He gags on his drink.
Sydney turns back to the leggy blonde.
Sydney turns his back on the second woman, who's pretty with flaxen hair.
The blonde leaves.
Sydney takes out the newspaper clipping.
He spills her drink.
Her soggy notebook.
The woman puts her phone away.
She gathers her belongings.
She glares at him.
Her brow furrows.
Bobbie, a buxom brunette in a zebra print dress, takes Alison's seat.
Sydney nods, eyebrows raised.
Then back at Sydney's sparse, undecorated apartment.
Bobby staggers off into the bedroom like a schoolboy.
Sydney takes a record and flings it over his head.
He replaces it.
Sydney thrashes out power cords on it, he flails wildly until the record suddenly stops.
He turns at the stop.
Bobbie's naked.
Sydney points.
Mrs. Kowalski slaps him.
They turn to look at Bobbie, and their eyebrows shoot up in unison.
Sidney wakes at 7:AM to the sound of his alarm clock.
Grimacing he fumbles around and turns it off.
Sunlight streams in through a bedside window.
He yanks the cord of his venetian blind.
It clatters down on top of him.
He tumbles from the bed.
He spits in the sink.
He sips urine-colored water from a glass.
He spits it out over the mirror.
In a gray tee-shirt and boxer shorts he raises a blind in the living room.
Half asleep under a blanket Bobbie adjusts his genitals.
Strolls through Time Square in a tee-shirt, saw garish billboards compete with towering glass walled office blocks.
a tower with glass walled office Reaches high in the sky.
He enters reception.
He collides with an immovable turnstile, then staggers round.
Attractive women dwarf him in an elevator.
A petite brunette in a gray suit leads him into a spacious office.
A be-suited man with shoulder length silver hair stands at a window staring out over the city.
Clayton Harding turns to look at him.
Sidney reaches into his shoulder bag and proffers a red tee- shirt.
Clayton slings it out of an open window.
A post-modern review depicting Clayton as a nude king.
Sidney's smile fades as he meets with an indifferent stare.
Clayton leaps through the offending issue.
Doc suited Lawrence leads him into a private office.
Sidney glances at his bright red tee-shirt and fidgets before pointing at a photograph on the wall.
It's the woman whose drink he spilled in the bar.
In an open-plan office Sidney crosses to Alison and perches on her desk.
She works at a computer.
A co-worker in a polka dot dress.
She frowns.
With a phone to his ear Sidney pulls over a sheet of printed photographic negatives.
He adjusts his specs.
She hangs up.
The corners of his mouth down turned.
He peers at the contact sheet through a magnifying eye-glass to see two portly middle aged gentlemen holding glasses of wine.
He hits redial.
He looks at the telephone receiver and frowns.
Munching a hamburger Sidney enters the lobby through a revolving door.
 blond In an A-line dress joins him.
As the door start to close she reaches out towards a hastily approaching colleague.
Quickly retracts her hand as the door slams shut.
She narrows her eyes disapprovingly.
It starts its descent.
The doors open.
She strides out in a huff to Alison, who is wearing sharp suit.
Ignoring Sidney she opens a book and starts to read.
Tight-lipped she stares down at her book.
Alison lowers her eyes as a golden haired woman in her mid- wearing expensive sunglasses steps into the lift and turns her back on them.
Sidney goes to swallow a mouthful of burger, but gags.
A glob of chewed burger shoots out of his mouth and lands with a splat on the back of the woman's cream jacket.
Sidney goes to wipe it off.
Grabbing his wrist an incredulous Alison shakes her head.
Sidney and Alison hurry out.
He takes a bite of burger.
Sidney rolls his eyes as he listens in.
Night, Sidney gazes out through the window of a sleek black automobile as it glides through Manhattan.
Alison and Lawrence seem indifferently thumb their mobiles phones.
He looks out on the gaudy lights of Time Square.
Sidney turns to his colleagues.
They eyeball him then look back at their phones.
Steam leaks off the window as doe-eyed Sidney stares open mouthed at the passing illuminations.
The glowing peaks of skyscrapers gleam in the night sky.
white flowers float on the surface of the rooftop swimming pool as immaculately dressed glitterati mingle and sip champagne.
Sidney saunters over to Alison carrying a plate piled high with finger foods.
Three beautiful women slink by.
Lawrence walks off into the crowd.
Party guests whip out their mobile phones in response to the ring tone.
A glamorous woman in her approaches heavy featured, debonair Lawrence.
Lawrence drifts off with goateed Vincent.
Sidney approaches Rachel who stands by herself looking out over the city.
She looks at him suspiciously.
Beaming she puts down her champagne.
Sidney hands her a napkin and a pen.
She hands him her autograph.
Sidney grins.
He rejoins the others.
Eleanor gestures to a besuited young man on the opposite side of the pool.
He dutifully taps Sophie on the shoulder and she turns to face Eleanor.
Sophie is resplendent in a backless white halter neck dress.
Sidney's jaw drops.
Eleanor waits for her to join them.
Pulling up the poolside, Sophie looks around for an appropriate route but is hemmed in by guests absorbed in conversation.
Smiling, she scratches her head, then kicks off her glittering high heels before stepping fully clothed into the pool.
Photographers takes pictures as she lifts her sleek, jet black hair over her head and wades gracefully towards Eleanor.
Clutching her long hair in a bun, she smiles flirtatiously for the camera.
She pulls herself up out of the water, her wet dress clinging to the sinuous curves of her lean, shapely body.
Eleanor speaks on her cell phone as they leave.
Sophie and Eleanor lead the way outside where a bustling crowd of press photographers asking for Sophie's attention.
Sidney shields his eyes from glare of the flashing cameras puts a coat over Sophie's shoulders.
And they head towards a waiting car.
Sidney tries to squeeze into the car beside Sophie.
Her Chihuahua.
They walk together.
Sidney stops with a frown as Alison strides off.
Sidney sits at his computer.
Lawrence throws him a newspaper.
A woman delivers a basket of flowers to Lawrence.
He reads the gift tag.
Gray-haired Lawrence gives Sidney a prickly look, then walks away.
Alison looks at a tight-lipped Sidney and shrugs.
He turns back to his computer.
Sidney zips up his fly as he rounds a corner into a white- walled corridor.
He sees Elizabeth Maddox approaching and stops anxiously in his tracks.
She stumbles and falls down in a heap in front of him.
Alison watches with baited breath from the end of the corridor.
Slack-jawed, Sidney gawks at her and she raises her eyebrows.
Flustered, he looks down at Elizabeth, then lifts his chin, flutters his eyelids and steps over her.
Alison gives him the A-OK and he walks on.
In a staff meeting, his coworkers look on stony-faced.
He prods Alison's arm.
Clayton rises from his seat at the head of the table and walks out.
Alison raises a palm to Sidney.
Clayton eats edamame beans and sushi at the desk in his office.
He tries to ignore Sidney, who's tapping a notebook with a pen.
He nods.
Bill's eyes narrow.
Bill's expression hardens.
A sheepish-looking Sidney sits opposite an indignant Clayton.
Sidney's hopeful smile wanes.
Clayton stares at Sidney, who furrows his brow and points at the door.
Clayton nods and Sidney leaves.
Alison reads as models pick outfits from a rack.
Sidney plunks himself down beside her and sighs.
Alison stares at him.
She scoffs.
She stands up.
She flounces off with her nose in the air.
Sidney makes eye contact with Lawrence and waves.
Sidney's nose is taped up like a pig's snout.
Eleanor and Sophie approach.
He tears the tape from his face and hides under his desk.
He emerges from beneath the table with Sellotape stuck to his left ear.
Sidney frowns and obediently toddles off.
He fills a plastic container from a water cooler.
He stares at Sophie, who's cradling Cuba.
He screws up his face.
Slighted, Eleanor gives him a piercing look and stomps off.
His eyebrows twitch and he looks around.
Lawrence and Sophie follow Eleanor from the office.
Sidney cautiously opens the door of an office and peers in to see Cuba staring back at him.
He tosses the little red ball, which bounces out through an open window.
Cuba scampers after it.
Sidney dives for the window and closes it.
Sidney smiles, then looks up to see a large stone ornament.
Sidney's eyes widen as the weighted, polished stone.
Horrified, Sidney bites his fist.
He calls an elevator.
She points.
They grapple for it.
A white paw sticks out.
Sophie, Eleanor, and Lawrence are in reception.
Sidney runs off.
Alison follows to find Sidney leaning out of a window.
He turns minus the bag.
She turns.
She turns to look at Sidney, who shrugs, arms folded.
The search party heads off, leaving a relieved Sidney slumped against a wall by the window.
Cuba's nose sticks out of the leather handbag as it drifts up behind him on the window cleaner's rising platform.
Sidney stands in the doorway of Clayton's office.
He sips whiskey.
He flings the blue shirts onto a desk and peers down his nose at them.
He gestures with a raised hand.
Smiling, Clayton strolls up to him.
Sidney leaves, then steps back in.
Sidney scurries off excitedly.
Back at his apartment, he types on a laptop at his coffee table.
Grinning proudly, he scratches his chin and looks down at a pile of magazines on the table.
He takes some of Sophie's promotional literature from the pile and regards it with a grimace.
It's Chihuahua, Sophie stares back at him from the page.
He dials a number on his cell phone.
A van sweeps past the Soho Grand Hotel.
Sidney fidgets as he tries to get comfortable on a sofa in the spacious white lobby.
The cushion he's sitting on slips forward and he sinks awkwardly into the crack.
A tall, slender woman emerges from a lift to find him struggling with the cushion.
His shirt and tank top have ridden up unflatteringly.
The woman towers over him.
Sidney's eyes widen.
She shrugs.
Sidney plonks the fishbowl down on the bar.
She stifles a self-conscious smile.
On a TV.
Alison's eyes are downcast.
He comes back for the fishbowl.
He heads off.
Alison stares down sadly at an untouched glass of White Russian.
Clayton presides over a staff meeting.
Sidney's irked.
Sidney scowls as Lawrence basks in the adulation of his colleagues.
Sidney catches up with him outside the meeting.
He grins broadly then heads off before turning back heavy- browed.
Sidney screws up his face.
Lawrence gives him a jaunty nod and saunters off.
Lawrence takes a seat behind his desk to address his underlings.
A blonde.
She strips and dances.
The stripper reveals a penis.
Mrs. Harding and her two young daughters looking.
Sidney quickly cups Bobbie's dangling penis.
A stone-faced receptionist stares at Sidney, who sits outside Clayton's office obsessively scrubbing his hand with a tissue.
The receptionist frowns.
Sidney looks in at Eleanor and Clayton, who stand at a desk discussing an A3 mock-up of a potential magazine cover.
Eleanor exits and walks uneasily past Sidney.
Clayton looms large in the doorway.
Sidney skulks into the office with his head hung low.
He sits as Clayton paces.
He's behind Sidney.
He walks round to face him.
Sidney looks him in the eye.
Clayton stares coldly.
Clayton turns away in his high-backed swivel chair as Sidney lopes out with his tail between his legs.
Seated party guests eat under white marquees on the lawn outside Clayton's sprawling mansion.
Alison's puzzled.
Sidney rises from the table and lets his hand linger on Alison's shoulder before sauntering away.
Alison looks behind her, then she too rises from the table.
Sidney, dressed in long shorts and a Hawaiian shirt, spots Sophie approach Lawrence.
Sidney joins Lawrence and Sophie.
Sidney gawks.
Sidney lopes off.
Sydney spies on them from behind a bush.
Lawrence stands with Alison, playfully tossing nuts into his mouth.
He waves to her daughters.
A bearded man with long gray hair, non-plussed.
Sydney ponders.
A beer bottle emerges over the railing of the bandstand.
Drunk Sydney climbs up onto the railing behind the band and addresses the crowd with his arms out.
The guests resume their conversations.
Sydney limps up to Alison who sits alone in the half-light with a bottle of wine in her lap, gently rocking on a swing.
He skulks off, then races back, gesticulating wildly.
Alison strides off tearfully, leaving a dumbstruck Sydney staring after her.
She quickly returns.
She kicks it.
He slumps down on the rope swing, then falls backwards onto the grass.
Shimmering lights play on the rippling surface of the swimming pool.
Sydney lies on his belly by the water's edge.
Sophie's reflection appears like a mirage on the water and he rolls over to look up.
She kneels down beside him.
She lies down beside him on her belly.
She rolls onto her back and moves closer to him.
She stares up at the stars.
Sydney bites his bottom lip.
Smiling, she turns her head to look at Sydney, who lies on his side, gazing at her.
Dappled by a pale shifting light, she looks back up at the stars.
Sydney springs to his feet and races off through the party.
The man hands Sydney a small Ziploc bag of white powder.
Sydney runs off.
Alison is bent over, drunkenly failing to unlock her car door.
Holding Alison upright, Sydney gazes over at Sophie, kneeling by the pool.
Sydney drives with Alison in the passenger seat.
They drive on down a dark stretch of road.
She presses her lips together, stifling tears.
She vomits.
Alison slung over Sydney's shoulder.
Sydney sits in his apartment with his bespectacled father and Mrs. Kowalski.
Wearing Sydney's jacket, Alison puts a song on in his bedroom.
Mrs. Kowalski gives Alison a sideways look as she dances out to join them.
The bag of white powder.
Alison joins them on the sofa.
She covers her mouth.
Balding, brown-suited Richard stands as Mrs. Kowalski leads Alison to Sydney's bedroom.
Sydney washes up as his father returns a framed portrait photo of a woman to a shelf.
Richard looks blank.
Richard sidles up behind him at the sink.
Richard goes to put a hand on Sydney's shoulder, but can't bring himself to do it.
He turns away.
Richard puts a copy of his book down on the table.
Sydney stares solemnly at his father, then reluctantly cracks a smile.
Sydney opens the bedroom door.
Leaning his head against the door frame, he peers into the dark room, where Alison lies sleeping.
He smiles fondly.
She stirs.
Sydney's eyes dart left and right as he retreats from the room.
The sun shines on Sydney's red brick building.
He's in the kitchen making a fry-up.
Alison comes in wearing his oversized pajamas.
Rubbing her neck, she looks at the black and white photo Richard was inspecting.
He turns back to the stove and continues to cook.
Alison sits at the table.
She looks at the bacon, sausage, egg, tomatoes, beans, and toast.
She runs off with a hand over her mouth.
Sydney plumps a cushion on his leather sofa and takes his father's book from the coffee table.
In doing so, he knocks Alison's handbag to the floor.
The contents tumble out and he scrabbles to collect them.
He picks up Alison's red notebook.
It's embossed with a gold image of a butterfly.
He glances about furtively, then opens it and starts to read.
He looks up again to find Alison watching him.
She shrugs and takes a seat.
She starts to gather her things from the coffee table.
The soundtrack to Le Dolce Vita.
Holding the record, she looks up with a smile.
He takes the battered record sleeve from her.
She closes her eyes and smiles as he puts the record on.
Wearing a wry smile, Sydney starts to dance.
He turns and offers Alison his hand.
They dance.
Sydney's pretty mother seems to watch from the photograph on the shelving unit, as Alison cracks a smile and dances a cheeky little jive with Sydney.
He takes her by the hand and raises it above his head.
Nestled between lush green trees and other crumbling apartment blocks.
Sydney's building is dwarfed by the skyscrapers on the horizon.
Alison sits at her desk as Ingrid goes through dresses with another model.
Sydney listens at the door.
Hearing Alison cross the office, he darts for a fire exit, setting off the alarm.
He closes the door and turns back.
A crowd of office worker convenes and turns back.
He taps the sign on the door.
He takes a wildlife book from a shelf.
The crowd disperses but Alison remains.
She watches him head off.
Into his bathroom mirror.
He sticks some fake fangs in.
He wrinkles his nose.
With white face paint, fangs and a cape, he carries a glass of wine as he finds Elena dressed as Marlene Dietrich.
She stands chatting.
Sydney walks away.
A person with Elvis Presley custome kisses a nun.
He heads over to Alison, who wears a black wig and holds a cigarette in a long.
He removes the fangs.
Lawrence gives her a glass of champagne, then kisses her on the cheek and walks away.
Sydney shifts uncomfortably.
He shakes his head.
They sip their drinks and stare straight ahead.
Sydney looks at Alison and sighs.
She looks at the floor.
He raises his glass, then turns away, popping the fangs back in his mouth as he makes his way through the crowd.
Alison has her back to him.
A morose Sydney sits alone at the table, his goblet-like glass in front.
Vincent and Elena sit in the back.
Elena winds the window down.
Vincent leans forward.
Sydney steps back from the car window and knits his hands together by his chin.
Drenched by the rain, he stares at them with window glides up.
Elena smiles at the driver.
The car pulls away, leaving a dispirited Sydney at the roadside, his hands clasped together, as if in prayer.
His long cape hangs in a puddle on the pavement.
He looks up at an electronic billboard from which Sophie stares at him.
She blows a kiss.
Breathing heavily, he hangs his head as the rain beats down on the dark street.
In Clayton's office.
Sydney smiles.
Dressed in a sharp pin-striped suit and dark glasses, Sydney sits opposite Vincent in a sushi bar, hurriedly taking notes and smiling enthusiastically at Vincent's comments.
Elena goes through Sydney's article, editing out the parts she doesn't like.
She hands it back to him.
He nods with a grateful smile as he looks it over.
Sydney stands behind Elena and a dark-haired woman as they airbrush Vincent's publicity photographs on a computer.
They digitally remove a pimple.
Sydney takes a copy of Sharp's magazine from a news kiosk on a street corner.
He flips through it to find his article.
A broad smile spreads over sidney`s face.
Sydney works at his computer in an office, his own.
Over time, it fills up with various gift baskets.
A female property agent shows Sydney around a spacious apartment.
Someone hands Sydney a gift box at his desk, the new Omega Speedmaster watch.
He takes off his old watch and flings it.
Sydney's name is taped on a number of guest lists.
Getting on like a house on fire, Sydney and Clayton share a joke in the lift.
Wearing a white robe, Sydney sits in a steam room.
A wide smile plays on his lips.
Alison reads an article on Sydney in a magazine.
She's sitting at a restaurant table.
Lawrence joins her.
On it is a white Russian cocktail.
He reads over her shoulder.
Lawrence removes his arm from round her shoulder, picks up his drink and takes a sip.
As he walks away, Alison glances down at her novel and frowns.
The exterior of Sydney's apartment building.
Alison is Inside the building.
Wearing a stripey robe, Sydney opens his door.
Alison nods.
Alison throws her head back with a sigh as he fetches some documents.
Notes on Alison's novel.
Ingrid slinks out in her bra and knickers.
Alison waves.
Lean shapely Ingrid pads off.
Alison looks him in the eye.
Seated in a restaurant.
Sydney's mouth hangs open.
A snow dusted black limousine draws up.
A man opens the car door for Sophie.
Climbs out onto the street, pink dressed and a light pashmina.
She poses for press photographers.
Sophie and Elena leave Sydney alone.
Sydney boogies on the dance floor with the happy bounces around joyfully as a smiling Sydney jives.
Smiling suggestively wraps her arms around Sydney.
images from a moving car.
Tall palm trees.
Signs read Hollywood, Beverly Hills.
The limo sweeps down a main road.
A billboard sports an image of a pouting Sophie wearing a nun's habit.
Stripped to his socks and boxer shorts, a terrified Sydney tries to gather the courage to leap between two high hotel balconies.
He hops back down from the railing.
The hotel room's filled with the young, affluent and beautiful.
Sophie unzips her blue dress and lets it fall to the floor.
She hands Sydney her bottle of beer as she strides out onto the balcony in her bra and knickers.
The guests rush over to the adjacent balcony to watch.
Smiling victoriously, Sophie stalks into the room from the adjacent balcony.
Reluctantly, he wrinkles his nose and snorts like a pig, hopping from one foot to another, his limp wrists held up to his chest.
Drinking whiskey at the foot of his bed and half watching a monster movie on TV, he flicks through the channels.
It's his mum.
He drops the remote control and looks down at his bare hand.
The handsome Brill-creamed gent in the 'movie slides an engagement ring onto Sydney's mum's finger and she gazes love- struck into his eyes.
Sydney's transfixed.
A sleek black sedan by a fountain outside the Annual Apollo Awards.
Sophie, Elena and Sydney get out and head down the red carpet towards the entrance.
Sophie wears gold an ostentatious white fur stole and a long flowing red dress.
Inside she does an interview for the cameras.
Sydney stands waiting nearby.
Lawrence approaches.
Sydney's eyes rove in thought as the penny drops.
He sits beside Sophie in the award ceremony.
The woman onstage announces the winner, Sophie Maes.
He looks up from his seat to see that Sophie's wearing his mother's ring.
He lowers his eyes.
The crowd applauds and Sophie makes for the stage.
He runs up behind her.
Sophie charges.
She pins him on the table.
they fall to the floor.
She slaps him.
Richard watches on the hotel room TV.
The magazine models see Sophie kick Sydney.
Alison chuckles to herself as she watches the debacle.
Sydney floors Sophie and springs up to his feet.
Elena's being restrained.
He runs off.
Bouncers approach.
Sydney stomps Vincent's dark glasses underfoot.
Vincent shields his eyes from the light.
Sydney races out of the doorway.
Clayton bursts out laughing, then sharply resumes a serious look.
Sydney races outside, where his escape is blocked by the fans and photographers amassed behind a red rope cordon.
Sydney looks defeated.
Then, a young guy lifts the cordon.
The bespectacled mop-head guy nods for Sydney to pass and he does, racing off through the crowd.
He approaches a pretty flame-haired flight desk attendant at LAX airport.
He glares at his mobile then looks up to see himself on a TV mounted to a pillar nearby.
Onscreen, Sophie dives on Sydney, pinning him to a table.
A close-up shows them grappling on the floor.
He smiles blankly at her.
Then,He obliges.
Looking bedraggled in his ruffled mess of a suit, Sydney sits alone in the departure lounge, impatiently tapping his hand with his mobile phone.
A burly guy in a yellow baseball cap, grey jacket and jeans pushes a floor buffer past behind him.
Sidney looks at the gold ring in his palm.
It sports a spiraling his hand around it and stares off.
A yellow taxi drives through the streets.
Seated in the back of the taxi, Sydney.
He looks out through the window to see La Dolce Vita open- air cinema screening.
The people are seated in deck chairs and on blankets, staring up.
Sidney searches for Alison in the crowd.
On the screen, a man rides on a woman's back.
He staggers around, looking left and right, then stops to stare up a grassy incline.
His face lights up as he sees Alison, reclining on a blanket, beside a man and a woman.
Alison leans in and talks to the man with an air of familiarity.
Sidney's face drops, and his shoulders sink.
The other woman hugs the man, and they cozy up together.
Sidney's smile returns, and he hurries up the slope towards them.
Alison squints up at him.
She smiles, and he looks around awkwardly.
She picks up her notebook and hands it to him.
She looks on as he leafs through it.
They smile at each other.
He tosses the book down on the blanket and offers a hand.
She takes it and rises to her feet.
They stand hand in hand, facing each other, just inches apart.
She smiles, and they share a passionate kiss.
They kiss.
He secretly takes the ring from his trouser pocket and puts it in the pocket of her floaty, pale blue floral dress.
They share a look then turn to face the screen.
A dance sequence begins.
Sidney and Alison start to jive.
He twirls her around slowly, and they shuffle back and forth.
The lights of Manhattan Bridge stretch towards the glimmering city.
Sidney looks down at the blanket.
Alison's notebook lies on top of a lit candle.
It catches fire.
He dives for it.
Beneath it, a low-rise bungalow perched on a gentle slope looks out over an uneven lawn under a cloudy sky.
A teenage girl with short brown hair tied back in a small ponytail swigs from a little size plastic bottle as she contemplates an armchair standing on the lawn, in front of her.
In flashback, the girl steps out of the knickers and walks slowly across the room towards a skinny boy sitting bare-chested in the same armchair.
Wearing just a T-shirt, the girl gives a tentative smile as she straddles the boy's lap and brings her rosebud lipped mouth close to his faith.
The girl stops the boy's mouth with a tender kiss.
The shaggy blond dog does what he's told.
The girl takes a swig of juice and wags her mouth on the sleeve of her hoodie.
She picks up a pregnancy kit.
She reaches for the washroom key.
He hands her the key.
In the washroom, she unzips her jeans and sitting down on the lavatory seat, she opens the pregnancy detection kit and brings out a narrow paddle shaped stick and puts it into position.
She pulls the stick out and gives it a cursory look.
Then, hurries back through to the store towards the counter.
She slaps a pack of sweets onto the counter and gazes at the test.
She shakes it.
She rolls her eyes at the counter clerk and leaves the store, stick in one hand.
Her expression is suddenly forlorn.
Juno slings the rope candy onto the branch of a tree and makes a noose.
She bites in to the liquorish rope and wanders off home.
Bedrooms, the light switch doubles as a doll's penis.
Naked dolls are clustered on the mantelpiece.
There's a photo of Bleeker playing his guitar.
Juno dials a number on her hamburger-shaped phone.
A girl lying on her bad with a rabbit on her chest answers.
They take up the armchair.
The armchair is shoved into the back of a car.
Bleeker hands Juno a note and she beams.
Bleeker brown and yellow sports kit.
Juno's sitting in the armchair on his front lawn.
On a rug, a posse of runners in brown and yellow come by.
Juno lowers her eyes.
Beneath his yellow sweatband, Bleeker's eyes cross and what little color there was in his pale cheeks washes away.
Juno blinks happily.
Bleeker swallows.
A thin smile flashes across Juno's heart-shaped face and she cuts a pipe between her teeth.
She gets on her bike and rides off, leaving Bleeker clutching his sandwich.
Juno cycles up to Dancing Elk School.
She parks her bike and secures it with a chain lock.
She makes her way past the oncoming throng of students, most of them taller than her, and reaches her locker.
The locker door is plastered with photos and cuttings.
She pulls out a folder and some pages fall to the floor as a boy comes by.
Juno grins at her friend talking to a fat bearded teacher.
In class, Bleeker swallows some Tic Tacs as Juno appears by his side clutching her folders.
Another boy stands on the other side of the work table.
A second girl turns up.
Amanda leaves Josh open mouth.
Bleeker suppresses a smile.
Later, Juno dials a number.
She vigorously shakes the phone and something falls out.
She frowns at the phone.
Juno throws up in a decorative urn.
Juno's little sister sprinkles her food.
Liberty Bell smiles slowly.
Juno plods away past Su-Chin.
Juno stops in her tracks.
She shrugs and walks on towards the door of the Women Now Center.
A punk girl sits in reception playing on her game console.
Juno wanders into the lobby and steps up to the counter.
Juno nods obediently.
Juno takes the questionnaire clipboard to a padded leather bench and sits down.
As she starts to fill in the form, she becomes aware of a black woman seated nearby crumbing her fingers against her clipboard.
A woman painting her nails, another scratching her arm, another using a nail file add to the crescendo of sound.
Juno drops her pen.
Su-Chin brightens.
They sit on a park bench scouring the paper.
Leah hands pipe smoking Juno an ad.
Bleeker is lying on his bed, looking at the photo of Juno in his yearbook.
His other hand is clasped around a piece of cloth.
Bleeker's solidly built double-chinned mother closes the door of his bedroom.
He goes back to gazing at Juno's picture and brings his class pen from behind his head.
Scrunched in his fingers, he's holding the knickers she wore and discarded on the day they had sex.
At Juno's house, Leah watches apprehensively as Juno paces in front of her dad and her step mom.
Mac and Bren brace themselves.
Juno looks them both in the eye.
Leah pulls a face.
Juno meets her dad's bewildered gaze, then lets her head drop for a second before speaking.
Mac shakes his head as she turns on her heels and hightails upstairs with Leah behind her.
He runs his hands over his face.
A slim young woman arranges some white hydrangeas in a glass vase.
White cuffed hands straightens a glass photo frame.
She places some aromatic sticks into a bottle.
Mac with Juno beside him drives his blue Previa through the gates of the affluent looking Glacial Valley estate.
With a ring on the fourth finger of her left hand, fans out the display of coffee table magazines, straightens two monogram tan towels, and wipes a banister rail as Mac drives past a number of substantial houses set back from the road.
He slows down in front of one house with a triple garage and box tree on the front lawn and pulls up onto the driveway.
As the woman carefully adjust the buttons on her pristine white cuffs, Mac and Juno wearing everyday casual clothes stroll up to the double-fronted door flanked by two slim furs.
Mac wipes his feet on the doormat.
The woman with neatly combed long dark hair opens the door with a bright smile.
Juno's slaps Gerta's profit hand.
Vanessa purses her lips.
Vanessa looks penetratingly at Juno.
On the staircase, Juno in her loose checked shirt over jeans passes a lineup of post photos of Mark and Vanessa in white.
She wonders into Vanessa's en suite bathroom and contemplates herself in the large mirror above the basin, smoothing the front of her hair.
There are several expensive looking bottles and jars grouped around the basin, next to a white orchid in a pot.
Opening one jar, she scoops out a finger full of cream and damps it on her face.
Then does a bodybuilder type snarl and pose.
Picking up a bottle of perfume, she sniffs it and sprays her wrist, rubbing it against the other wrist.
As she comes out of the bathroom, she collides with Mark.
Her eye lights on the guitar.
Mac points to some apparatus.
Vanessa smiles proudly.
Mac's attempted conversation is met with a baffled look.
Then, he and both women look up towards the sound drifting down from the floor above.
With a brittle smile, tall slim Vanessa hurries upstairs to find Mark and Juno duetting on guitars.
Mac is looking at some forms.
Mark closes the front door with a wry smile.
Vanessa presses her hands together as if in prayer and lets him fold her in his arms.
Vijay speeds up leaving Bleeker alone on the running track.
Two boys pass him as he slows to a walk.
At school, a grey head starkly built woman in a mauve cardigan sits behind the desk looking disapprovingly at Juno bulging.
The woman grudgingly signs a pink form and hands it to Juno.
Juno smiles sweetly and comes out into the corridor.
A technician spreads gel across Juno's distended belly with an ultrasound scan head.
On a monitor next to her, Juno watches moving patches of light and dark take on a recognizable shape.
Leah and Bren sigh with delight.
Bren's lips tighten.
With a look that could kill, the ultrasound technician leaves the room.
In her room, with its walls covered in drawings, Juno lies on her bed, her legs propped up on cushions, gazing at the ultrasound print.
She blinks thoughtfully and moments later is driving Mac's blue Previa out to Glacial Valley estate past its immaculate houses and lawns blanketed in snow.
As she runs up to the Lorings' front door, she smoothes down the hem of the skirt she wears over her jeans.
She peers in through one of the two oval leaded windows.
She shows Mark the image.
Mark seems to lose himself in the music, then he looks at Juno.
Juno notices a VHS.
He snatches the tape from her and they watch the film.
A sinister man drives a stake through a woman's stomach.
Juno shows Vanessa the picture.
Vanessa studies the image lengthwise and sideways.
Vanessa looks across at Mark, who shrugs brutally.
Vanessa stands with her arms tightly folded.
He places Juno's bag over her shoulder and opens the door to let her out.
Vanessa gives her husband a tight smile.
It's dark by the time Juno arrives home, sipping from a drinks carton.
Bren is cutting out pictures of dogs.
As Bren goes back to her paper dogs, Juno pours the dregs of her drink into Bren's ornament.
Outside, on the snowy street, Juno stops the Previa and eases off her grey overskirt.
Bleeker's mother opens her front door.
Juno races up the stairs outrunning Bleeker's mothers and getting to Bleeker's room before her.
Bleeker reaches for a box.
Juno eases herself into a chair with her legs apart.
She slides onto the floor next to him.
They both look away awkwardly.
Juno suddenly looks glum.
At her home, Vanessa, in an old T-shirt, her hair pulled back in a pony tail, stands before a bare wall.
Mark, standing next to her, arms folded, looks glum.
Playing nervously with the chain around her neck, Vanessa turns to the wall behind her.
Mark stares bleakly at the wall.
Juno and Leah are in the mall.
They crouch down behind a glass balcony.
Vanessa is joking around with a friend's little girl in the mall play area.
Leah sucks in her cheeks.
She stands up and looks elsewhere, but Juno stays where she is, gazing down at Vanessa playing with the little girl.
A soft smile spreads across Juno's face.
They walk into Vanessa.
Vanessa shakes her head in awe.
Juno winces.
Juno plants Vanessa's hand on her belly.
Vanessa shakes her head.
Vanessa's beautiful sculpted face tightens self- consciously.
Then, she drops to her knees in front of Juno
and with a nervous glance about her She places her hands on Juno's belly.
Her eyes widen excitedly.
Juno, standing over her, watches her with a mixture of fondness and pride, as Vanessa gazes at the swollen belly like a love struck puppy.
Bren, at the sewing machine, cuts the top of a pair of jeans and sews on an elasticated band.
She gives a satisfied smile as she tests the elastic.
Juno, wearing the adapted jeans, comes down the school.
Her hands long in the pockets of her baggy tartan parker.
Her fellow students, staring at her belly, clear a path to let her pass.
Mark's at home composing.
In the school canteen, the two girls eat their lunch in an empty school awards booth.
Leah gazes adoringly at the tubby bearded teacher.
At his locker, Bleeker knocks back.
Juno waddles up to him and looks him straight in the eye.
Bleeker's eye shift.
He glances in Katrina's direction.
Bleeker's head drops miserably.
She strides away with her canvas bag over her shoulder, leaving Bleeker standing by his locker, watching her glumly.
Juno hoists herself up into her dad's Previa.
She puts on some lip balm and starts the engine.
Mark, surfing on his PC, sees the blue van pull up outside.
She follows him downstairs.
He leads her into a cluttered basement room.
She reads a title.
Her hands grab his waist.
He brings the up to his neck.
With his hands round her waist, her belly touching his, she closes her eyes and rests her head on his chest, as they slowly sway together.
Mark, with his chin brushing against her hair, seems unsettled.
Juno looks up startled.
Juno stares at him in bewilderment.
Vanessa, loaded down with shopping, comes into her pristine white kitchen.
Mark lowers his gaze.
Juno starts to go.
Juno bolts out of the door.
Clutching her belly she waddles out to the Previa.
Mark, in his rock T-shirt, over a long sleeved undershirt looks coldly at Vanessa and goes back to his room.
Vanessa sinks down on the stairs and gazes unhappily into space.
Beneath a cloudy sky, Juno drives under a road bridge, passing a freight train on one side.
She pulls off the main carriage way onto the soft shoulder, next to a sward of dull green grass dotted with patches of spring snow.
She runs her hand over her own belly as she gives into tears.
Crammed in, behind the wheel, Juno seems oblivious of the passing cars as she rubs her belly under her thick tartan coat.
Her eyes stare straight ahead, not looking at anything in particular.
And she starts to calm down.
The car lights flash and she pulls back on to the road and drives off.
Up in his room, Bleeker is playing his guitar.
It's after dark.
 On the bonnet of the van, her head resting on the sloping front windscreen, with her hands tuck behind her back staring up at the sky.
She suddenly raises herself onto her elbows and climbs back into the van.
She rummages behind her and finds a crumpled receipt.
She smoothes it out on the steering wheel of the van and starts to write on it.
In her immaculate house, Vanessa is sitting alone at the dining room table, sipping a glass of red wine.
Mark comes downstairs.
He comes towards her and pulls up a chair.
A faintly smug smile flickers across his face.
Mark, opening the front door, catches sight of Juno driving off.
At his feet, he finds the note she left.
Vanessa grabs it from him and they both read it.
Juno parks the Previa in the street outside the family's wooden slatted house, where the porch light illuminates a straw heart hanging on the door knocker.
She gets out of the vehicle looking emotionally and physically exhausted.
In the front garden, she stops to pick a crocus and with a solemn expression traces a circle across her tummy with its petal.
Her mustachio dad, his bald head gleaning in the bright kitchen light, is busy fixing something at the kitchen table as she comes in.
She flops down at the table.
He stares at her belly.
Juno nods wryly, then her expression brightens.
Mac smiles to himself and carries on tinkering.
Through the slats, on Bleeker's upstairs window blinds, Juno and Leah can be seen scouring to the Previa.
Next morning, as the track team run past his house, Bleeker comes out of the front door.
He opens the mailbox and a of orange Tic Tac packs cascade onto his feet.
He grins in delight.
The running team sprint around the track.
Bleeker breaks off as he spots Juno coming towards him past a lineup a cheerleaders rehearsing their routine.
Smiling, he jogs to meet her.
She takes his hand and places it on her tummy with her hands clasping his.
Their eyes lock and he smiles.
With his hands in the pockets of his brown sweatshirt, over his skimpy yellow shorts, he kisses her.
And standing on tiptoes, Juno cups his face.
Her secret admirer watches sullenly and Leah, doing stretching exercises, grins.
Juno gives her the finger, keeping her lips firmly stuck to Bleeker's lips.
Later, she drives a matchbox police car up over the crest of her enormous belly.
The little car slips from her grasp and she rolls her eyes.
Mac, Juno, and Bren come hurtling out of the front door with Liberty Belly in her ballet outfit.
In the hospital, Leah jokingly steers Juno's wheelchair into a gown trolley.
In the birthing suite, Bren, Leah, and the midwife keep their eyes fixed firmly on Juno.
A squawking baby attached to his umbilical cord.
Juno takes a long look at him, then closes her eyes.
Bleeker breaks the tape.
He looks round for her.
He runs up the steps of the stand and away.
In the hospital room, Mac is gently stroking Juno's hair as she lies on her side in bed.
She nods sleepily.
They both turn to the door and Juno's face lights up.
Bleeker stands in the doorway.
Mac gets to his feet and kisses Juno on the forehead.
At the doorway, he looks Bleeker straight in the eye and lightly squeezes him by the shoulders, then goes.
Bleeker comes round to the other side of the bed and pulls off his yellow sweatband.
He crawls on the bed next to Juno, wrapping his arm across her chest, cupping her hand in his.
She starts to sob.
A nurse comes to the door of the maternity ward and smiles at Vanessa, who's looking in through a window.
A porcelain white face looking nervous, Vanessa follows the nurse into the ward and stands over one.
The nurse picks the baby up and hands him to her.
Bren appears in the doorway and smiles approvingly.
Vanessa gazes into the baby's face and beams.
Juno, wearing her birthing gown and her striped woolen socks and Bleeker in his sports kit and trainers held up like to spoons on the bed.
Juno starts to smile through her tears.
An antique rocking chair in the baby's nursery.
Above the white cup, the note Juno scribbled is mounted in a white frame on the pale yellow painted wall.
Vanessa, sitting up in bed, her baby in her arms, gazes solemnly into his upturn face.
She strokes the soft downy hair above his ear and cups his head in her hand.
Trees are bursting with blossom as the track team jogged down a winding path.
Bren is sitting on the front lawn bouncing two Weimaraner pups on her lap.
Smiling Juno, back to her slim self, pushes her bike out onto the pavement with a guitar over her shoulder.
She rides down a quiet residential street in bright sunlight.
She arrives at Bleeker's house and props her bike against the front wall.
Bleeker is sitting on the low wall with his guitar on his lap.
Juno sits down facing him with her guitar.
The sit facing each other in the sunshine in front of Ms. Bleeker's gable fronted house.
Juno stands up and plants a kiss on Bleeker's lips, just as the track team come jogging by.
The pictures snaps to black.
A set of swings and a climbing frame stand in a rural backyard, along with a picnic table and a brick barbecue.
An upstairs window looks out over the scene.
Inside a framed photo on a bedside table shows a smiling family.
Mum, dad, and a young boy and girl.
The dad wears a clerical collar.
Suddenly, the same man leans up on his elbows in bed.
His eyes darting feverishly around the simply furnished room.
He relaxes and sits up.
The man, Graham Hess, comes out of his bedroom wearing a black t-shirt and pajama bottoms.
He walks along the landing in his bare feet and comes to a closed door with some hand drawn children's pictures stuck to it.
Graham pauses for a moment to listen at the door.
Then, returns to his bedroom, picking up some discarded socks on the way.
He's in his mid-with short dark hair and a rugged handsome face.
Graham crosses the bathroom and stares out of the door, his toothbrush in his mouth.
He strides across the landing, opens the door to the children's room and glances around.
A younger man in a similar rural style bedroom, suddenly, jolts and tumbles out of bed.
He jumps to his feet and strains to listen.
Graham rushes out of his wooden farmhouse and heads towards a whitewashed barn, while the younger man runs down a flight of steps from the other floor.
Graham and the young man, Merrill, charge through a field of tall green maize.
They stop when they reach a gap.
And look along a clear pathway, which cuts through the crop.
A dark haired girl of about six-years-old stands a little further down the path.
The two men run over to her, and Graham grabs her by the arms.
Merrill picks up Bo and Graham dashes on through the maize.
He reaches a fair haired boy of about 10, who stares glassily across the field.
Graham turns Morgan's head to face him.
Morgan puts his hand around his father's jaw, and turns his head to face in the direction he had been staring.
Graham stands and slowly walks through the maize, followed by Merrill, who's still carrying Bo in his arms.
Graham stops and glances around anxiously.
He swallows hard and tentatively steps forward onto a sea of flattened maize stalks.
Graham stares in wonder as he, Merrill, Morgan and Bo come to the perimeter of a vast circular expanse of flattened maize.
Two large Alsatians pace around uneasily in the center.
An aerial view shows Graham and his family standing in the circle, which is about yards in diameter.
Another crop circle lies beside it.
It's the same size, but has a small semi-circle of maize still standing within it.
A path leads from the side of the circle, splitting into two prongs.
A third crop circle has two straight lines at either side, and a circle of maize remaining in the center, with another path leading off from its side.
It splits into three larger prongs, the central one of which points towards a smaller circle.
Graham is on the phone as he looks out of his window at the yard.
He bows his head.
Graham steps into the kitchen.
One of the dogs lies on the floor near a puddle of liquid.
Morgan and Bo lead the Alsatian into the backyard.
Graham crosses the kitchen and pulls some paper towels off a roll.
He dabs at the urine, saturating the towels.
Then, stands and walks back across the kitchen.
A dark haired woman in a police uniform leans casually in a doorway leading to the front hall.
Carolyn sighs wearily and gazes at Graham.
In the yard, Morgan's at the smoking barbecue.
He sticks a fork in a chicken wing and turns it over.
One of the Alsatians watches Morgan from the veranda.
The other one, Houdini, lies slumped in the yard with Bo kneeling in front of him.
Morgan walks across to Bo as she drinks from a large glass of water.
Morgan kneels beside his sister, and drinks from the tall glass.
He gives her the glass.
Bo carefully pours the water into a metal dog bowl, and slides it across the grass to Houdini.
The Alsatian suddenly jerks his head up towards Bo.
Bo jumps back in shock.
And Morgan frowns.
Bo stands.
Houdini stands up and Bo freezes.
The stalks all lie in the same direction.
Graham shakes his head.
She looks across the field.
Graham stares thoughtfully into space.
He rises and slowly walks towards the edge of the circle.
Caroline stands and watches him with a slightly puzzled expression.
Graham gazes across the field.
Graham and Caroline emerge through the tall green crop and look around anxiously.
Graham spots something over to his left and strides briskly towards it with a concerned expression.
Caroline follows him.
And they break into a jog.
Houdini lies motionless on the ground near the climbing frame, with Morgan kneeling beside him.
The barbecue fork sticks out of Houdini's throat.
And Morgan holds an asthma inhaler as he stares down at the dog.
Morgan looks up at his father through puffy red eyes.
Bo sits up on a platform on the climbing frame, with her knees drawn tightly up to her chin.
She wears blue sneakers and jeans under her pale flowery dress.
Morgan looks back down and takes a puff of his inhaler.
Graham stares at his son and crouches down beside Houdini.
Morgan takes Graham's hand and steps over Houdini.
They gaze down at the dead dog.
Graham puts his hand on Morgan's shoulder.
Morgan brushes it away and trudges off solemnly.
Graham steps up to the climbing frame and looks searchingly at Bo.
She remains in a tight ball, staring down at the ground.
Graham gently lifts her off the platform and holds her against his shoulder.
He carries Bo back to the farmhouse as Merrill emerges, carrying a bowl and a bag of feed.
Graham walks past him.
Graham climbs onto the veranda and walks through the front door of the house.
Merrill looks over to the climbing frame with a confused expression.
He's in his early with short dark hair and a boyish face.
Merrill puts down the bag of feed and unties Isabel, the other Alsatian, from the veranda steps.
He leads her across the yard as Caroline pulls the barbecue fork from Houdini's throat.
A wire wind chime in the shape of a beaming sun hangs on the veranda and swings mournfully in the soft breeze.
That night the farmhouse stands in darkness beneath a black sky.
Graham lies on his side in bed.
His eyes suddenly open.
He stares ahead.
Bo gazes at him.
Graham pads across the landing to the children's bedroom, holding Bo by the hand.
They come to the open bedroom door and step into the darkened room, where Morgan lies half off his bed in an uncomfortable looking heap.
Bo shuffles off to her bed as Graham gently lifts Morgan up and lies him on his back.
Graham walks across the bedroom and sits beside Bo on her bed.
He gazes at her and looks her up and down.
Bo looks at him through wide bright eyes.
A sadness falls across Graham's face.
Graham looks at his daughter, then, glances over at the bedroom window.
A shadowing figure stands by a chimney pot on the barn roof.
Graham jumps to his feet.
Downstairs in the lounge, Merrill's asleep in an armchair.
Graham touches his shoulder and Merrill wakes.
He looks up at his brother in confusion.
Graham and Merrill are by the front door.
Merrill opens the door.
An outside light comes on.
They rush out and split up.
Merrill comes to the back of the house as a dust bin's tipped over up ahead.
Graham runs along the side of the house.
The brothers meet up again at the front of the house.
They stop and look around breathlessly.
A sound on the roof of the house attracts their attention.
Merrill keeps his gaze fixed firmly on the farmhouse roof as he paces backwards down the gloomy yard, and tries to get a better view.
He walks tensely back to Graham.
Merrill and Graham turn and look behind them as something brushes past the swing.
There's an urgent rustling in the maize stalks beyond the swing, which gradually dies away.
Next morning, Caroline sits in the dining room with Morgan, who's holding her walkie talkie.
Morgan nods.
Caroline smiles warmly and nods back.
She grins.
Bo sits in the adjoining lounge, watching cartoons.
Graham walks over.
Bo does so.
There are three glasses of water on the TV set.
Caroline looks across at Merrill, who sits at the other end of the long dining room table.
He rests his head on his hand and looks up at her.
Merrill grins at Caroline and absently rubs his finger on the table top.
She shrugs.
Caroline glances at Morgan, who's studying her walkie talkie.
She looks back at Merrill.
Graham walks across the lounge and spots three glasses of water on a small table.
He leans over and picks them up.
He stands upright and sees some more glasses of water on a nearby cabinet.
Graham puts the three glasses back down and walks into the dining room.
He sits at the table by Merrill.
She checks her notebook.
She gives them a patronizing look.
Graham looks tense and awkward.
She nods.
Graham shrugs, and looks uncertainly at Merrill.
Graham blows out his cheeks.
And Merrill looks at the ceiling.
Merrill holds up his hands and turns away in frustration.
Bo comes into the dining room and taps Graham on the arm.
Bo leaves.
Merrill shifts awkwardly.
Graham considers for a moment.
Bo comes back.
Caroline looks up.
In the lounge, the TV shows news footage of a corn field with a line of crop circles similar to Graham's.
A man talks to camera.
circles are scattered across a map of India.
Footage shows people standing in some of the circles.
Graham's steely blue eyes gleam as he stares at the TV.
Morgan takes a puff of his inhaler.
Caroline stands behind him.
Graham and Caroline come out of the house.
She shakes her head as they stroll away from the farmhouse.
Caroline nods and opens the driver's door of her police car.
She smiles and gets in.
Graham stands and watches as Caroline pulls around an island of grass in the middle of a stretch of gravel and heads off down the driveway.
Morgan and Bo sit in the back of a car.
Bo points a finger at Morgan.
And he brushes it away.
Graham turns the radio off again.
Graham, in the driving seat, glances over his shoulder at Morgan, then, turns back to the road.
Morgan sighs wearily.
An aerial view looks directly down onto a quiet freeway, which runs through a suburban part of town.
Graham's silver station wagon drives along the freeway, and passes a large modern church.
The station wagon parks up beside some other vehicles outside a parade of shops and the family get out.
Merrill feeds the parking meter.
And Morgan holds his hand out to Graham.
Graham hands Morgan some cash.
Morgan and Bo head off down the sidewalk together.
Graham watches them as Morgan holds out his hand and Bo takes it.
Graham turns and calls to Merrill, who strolls off in the other direction.
Morgan's in a bookshop watching the news coverage with the middle aged proprietors.
A radio's on in a pharmacy as Graham waits at the counter.
The young shop assistant comes to the counter with a paper prescription bag.
She leans pensively on the counter.
Tracy's face crumples.
Graham looks awkward.
Merrill's in an army recruitment center looking at the posters.
A gray haired man in a sergeant's uniform sits at a desk with a poster of Uncle Sam behind him.
Merrill turns to the sergeant.
Cunningham stares up at Merrill.
Merrill gazes apprehensively down at Cunningham, then laughs.
He gives Merrill a pamphlet.
Merrill stares at Cunningham.
Merrill nods.
A scruffy young man's filling out a form.
Lionel smirks.
He has stubble on his chin and wears a t-shirt and sleeveless biker jacket.
Merrill folds up the pamphlet and puts it in his pocket.
Merrill walks solemnly towards the door.
He stops just behind Lionel and jerks as though about to hit him.
Lionel flinches.
And Merrill leaves.
In the bookshop, Bo sits at a table and sips a glass of water.
A cola commercial comes on TV.
Morgan holds the book out to the lady.
In the pharmacy.
Tracy thinks.
Merrill, Morgan, and Bo are already eating in a pizza restaurant when Graham comes in and sits at their table.
The other three nod.
Graham sighs and nods back.
Then, glances out of the restaurant doorway.
His expression hardens when he sees a young dark-haired man of Asian descent strolling down the sidewalk, and opening the back door of a brown Chevrolet four by four.
Morgan follows his father's gaze and looks out of the doorway at the man.
Merrill also gazes out at the young man.
Graham and his family stare fixedly out at the young man, who shuts his car door and glances over at the restaurant.
He sees the family gazing back at him.
And his mouth opens in surprise.
Graham takes a deep breath.
And the young man looks unsettled as he gets into his driver's seat, and fires up the engine.
The four by four swings out of its parking bay, and accelerates off down the road.
Graham turns back to the table and takes a bite of pizza, while Merrill, Morgan, and Bo continue looking out at the street.
Graham's station wagon returns to the farm, and pulls up outside Merrill's converted barn.
Merrill and Graham undo their seat belts, then, turn round to the buzzing noise coming from the back.
Morgan picks up a pale blue radio receiver from beside him on the seat.
Bo sits next to Morgan in a child's car seat.
She watches Morgan as he puts the receiver to his ear.
He points to the sky.
Merrill sighs and turns away.
Graham watches his brother, then, ponders and turns back to Morgan.
Graham reaches back.
And Morgan gives him the receiver.
Graham and Merrill stare at each other and listen.
Merrill sits back exasperated.
Graham gets out, followed by the rest of the family.
Bo freezes in shock.
Merrill looks down at Morgan and considers.
Graham leans back down into the car.
Merrill looks uneasy.
Graham slowly stands.
Merrill reaches out his hand.
Merrill and Graham both hold the receiver across the car roof.
Morgan climbs onto the roof of the car.
He crawls towards Graham and Merrill.
And takes the receiver.
Bo runs round to the bonnet.
Bo clambers up.
And Graham sits on the bonnet to prevent her from getting any further.
Merrill gets onto the roof with Morgan and holds him steady as Morgan points the receiver up to the sky.
Bo struggles to get onto the roof.
And Merrill takes hold of her hand.
Morgan slowly lowers the receiver and looks at it.
Bo slides back down into Graham's lap.
Carrying a metal dish of dog food for Isabel in one hand, Graham steps out of the farmhouse through a screen door and into the dark.
He walks steadily across the lawn to where the Alsatian is chained to its kennel.
Agitated, Isabel shifts and jumps about, pulling at the chain, and barking into the quivering field of maize.
Graham stops just short of the dog and looks out into the darkened field.
He slowly turns his body to face the crop.
Isabel lunges at Graham, who recoils.
Staring in surprise at the dog, he turns his gaze back to the gently rustling field.
Isabel remains agitated.
Graham opens a battered metal toolbox resting on a picnic bench.
And lifts out a large torch.
Inching cautiously forward and holding out his free hand as if for balance.
He directs the circular torch beam onto the edge of the crop.
Graham walks slowly up to the wall of maize and steps inside the tall dense corn.
He ventures on at an even pace, moving down a narrow channel between two rows of rigid stalks.
The white torch light angled low illuminates the limp straggly green leaves, which bend back as he pushes through them.
Graham halts, raises the torch and peers into the tunnel of foliage ahead.
He spins round, aiming the torch beam into the impenetrable jungle on one side, but finding nothing.
The light hardly passing beyond the first few rows of woody green stalks.
He then lowers the flashlight to his side and begins to pick his way through the crop, one arm raised to shield his face from the leaves.
Emerging in the first of the crop circles, Graham lowers his arm gently.
And comes to a gradual stop, viewing the area with renewed concern.
A pale gray light fills the vast perfect circle of evenly flattened corn.
And the leaves glow with a silvery sheen.
Graham stands still, his torch shooting a slender shaft of light across the circle.
His eyes dart about.
Graham swallows and takes a steadying breath.
He scans the circle apprehensively, then, steps backwards towards the standing crop.
Turning at the last moment, he cuts straight into the corn.
Struggling through the unbending forest until he stumbles out onto a pathway running between two areas of maize.
Graham shines his torch along the path.
It's clear.
He then turns and points the beam the other way.
Again, nothing.
He stares into the crop.
Whipping round, he drops the torch and the light goes out.
Panting and keeping his eyes fixed intently on the maize.
He crouches down warily and reaches for the torch.
Locating the flashlight, he frantically slaps the lens.
And the beam returns, briefly illuminating his face.
He shines the light down the path.
A long thin bare leg slips silently into the corn.
Graham scrabbles backwards.
Then, leaps up and sprints off in the opposite direction.
He plows into the corn and charges through it.
The torch light dances over the leaves as he runs.
In the farmhouse, Morgan and Bo are washing up at the sink in the kitchen, which opens directly onto the lounge.
Merrill sits at a table with his back to them.
He reads the army pamphlet he picked up in town and lazily chews gum.
Unnoticed by the other three, Graham pads softly into the kitchen and stops.
He lowers himself gently into a seat at the table.
His two children turn around and see their father staring at the floor.
Morgan steps falteringly up to the table, leaving Bo at the sink.
Merrill then peers casually over his shoulder and notices his downcast brother.
Getting up, he heads into the kitchen, stopping just short of the table.
Graham looks at Merrill, then, sits up straight and sighs.
On the screen, lights hover in a night sky.
Graham and Merrill sit on the sofa.
Morgan and Bo are kneeling close to the TV.
Morgan fetches a video.
Graham stares wide-eyed at the screen.
Now seated, Morgan uses his inhaler.
He's beside Merrill.
Bo's at the other end of the sofa beside her dad.
All four of them are hypnotized by the TV on which sit two glasses of water.
Later, with the lights out, Graham and Merrill are still transfixed.
The children sleeping.
He stares ahead.
He meets Merrill's gaze.
Merrill looks away.
Merrill's smile fades.
And Graham looks somber.
Uneasy, Merrill ponders this.
Then, recalls something.
And his face brightens a little.
He grins.
Graham watches the TV.
Merrill looks at Graham, then, nods.
Graham shoots a knowing glance at this brother, who looking forlorn, returns his gaze to the TV.
Graham stares vacantly.
His eyes meet with Merrill's.
Merrill shakes his head.
With conviction in his eyes, he stares piercingly at Merrill.
He looks almost angry.
His features taut and his eyes glistening, Graham turns to face the TV.
Merrill looks down thoughtfully.
Then he too faces the TV.
And they watch together.
Their expressions blank as if in a trance.
Now, a fresh-faced Graham, dressed in black, and wearing a white dog collar, drives slowly down a country road at night.
Ahead, the lights of emergency vehicles flash.
And Caroline stands in the road, waving her arms above her head.
His face long, Graham pulls to a stop and climbs out.
Caroline walks up to meet him.
Graham wakes up on the sofa.
And his glazed eyes scan the room.
Light floods through the windows into the comfortably furnished room.
Graham heaves himself into a sitting position.
And stays there for a while without moving.
He then spots a black cable snaking across the polished dark wood floor.
Hoisting himself slowly to his feet, he follows the cable across the room and into the hallway.
The lead runs into a closet under the stairs.
And Graham opens the door to find a bleary eyed Merrill sitting perfectly still, staring fixedly at the TV.
He looks up, a little surprised.
Uncomfortable, Graham goes.
The doors shut.
Later, Graham, wearing a blue dressing gown, pads out of the bathroom, drying his ear with a towel.
Frowning, he goes to a window and looks down into the empty garden, with its swings, climbing frame and picnic bench.
Hearing the voice, Graham raises his eyebrows.
Then, walks along the landing and into the children's room.
Morgan and Bo are sitting on a bed, wearing pointy cone shaped hats made of silver foil.
They look up.
Morgan's holding open a book.
Bo points to her hat.
Graham enters and sits down between his children on the bed.
He peers down at Morgan's book.
Morgan closes the book.
Bo points at it.
And Graham falters.
Opening the book.
Graham looks uncertain.
Nodding dubiously, Graham takes the book from Morgan and starts to leaf through the pages.
Morgan and Bo look on.
On one page is a simple sketch of an extraterrestrial with a teardrop shaped head and large catlike eyes.
On another page is a picture of a bluey green alien with an angular jaw, and black almond shaped eyes.
On a third page, a gloomy nighttime drawing of a UFO firing two red laser beams into a wooden farmhouse, which is on fire.
Flames pouring from the upstairs windows.
Lying on the lawn of the pictured house are three shadowy bodies, an adult and two children.
Morgan and Bo are staring at the picture.
Graham's eyes flick pensively from side-to-side.
They all jump back.
Taking the book, he leaves.
And answers the phone on the landing.
Graham stands stock still.
The telephone receiver still pressed to his ear.
He glances down the landing into a room containing a dressmaker's dummy.
Now clothed, Graham plods downstairs.
Takes a coat from the closet, where Merrill is still glued to the TV.
Then, picks up some keys.
Merrill's confused.
From the bedroom, Morgan's looking at clouds through a telescope.
Bo stands beside him.
Bo Nods with a worried expression.
She gives a slow deliberate nod.
She hugs his arm.
Bo avoids eye contact.
Graham knocks at the house of Vet. Ray Reddy.
He opens the screen door.
He peers through slats in the wooden door behind it, then, gingerly closes the screen.
Graham gently releases the handle.
Stepping back from the door, his keen eye scanning from left to right.
He turns and treads calmly along the wooden veranda surrounding the house.
Reaching the closed window, he stops and looks through the glass into an office.
The compact ruin is deserted, the solid dark wood desk clattered with papers.
Graham's gaze alights on a wooden chair lying upturned on the floor beside the lampshade.
Its toppled vase on a small round table above, the naked bulb still glowing brightly.
Graham views the scene with restrained alarm.
Then, backing away.
He turns and spots the brown Chevy parked on a short driveway, a figure the wheel.
Graham approaches the vehicle cautiously across a lawn, leaning over to get a view of its occupant.
The passenger side window is lowered.
Graham puts both hands on the sill and leans in with an inquisitive frown.
Ray, the Asian man who stayed in town, sits with one hand clamped to the steering wheel, rocking nervously and staring numbly ahead.
In the back are bundles of clothes which Graham eyes questioningly.
Returning his attention to the front, he notices a blood stain on Gray's check shirt.
Ray is still staring ahead.
He lowers his eyes then frowns.
Graham regards him closely.
Ray bows his head and reflects.
His guilty eyes reluctant to confront Graham's gaze.
The slowly, he turns and takes a breath.
His doleful eyes linger on Graham, then, he starts the engine.
Ray sits back in his seat.
Graham stares.
He peers earnestly at Graham, whose eyes moistened a little as he fights with his emotions.
His lips curled and features crumpled, he nods sufferingly.
Ray drops his gaze.
Graham turns to face Ray's clapboard home.
At the farmhouse, in the closet under the stairs, Merrill is still watching TV.
His brow creased with worry and lips slightly apart.
Merrill moves his chair right up to the television, and watches the cam coder footage of his hysterical young children inside the house.
The kids gathered by French windows and point to the backyard, where tables laden with party food lie abandoned.
The camera focuses on tall bench bushes at the back of the yard, then, returns to the interior.
It follows the children as they swarm to another window.
Merrill watches in frustration.
A boy looks out on a narrow passageway.
The camera focuses on the passage.
A lanky dark ring with a human appearance steps across the passage, and out of view.
Merrill recoils, cupping a hand to his face in shock as he backs away from the TV.
The film is rewound.
Merrill sits back down in front of the TV and watches mouth gaping as the picture freezes on the creature.
The image flickers slightly.
Graham's into Ray's house.
Pausing outside the open kitchen door.
He steps timidly into the room, where chairs lie turned on the floor and the tables being wedged against the door leading into the pantry.
A shadow passes under the door as Graham treads hesitantly towards it.
The movement is then accompanied by a sound.
Graham stares intently at the gap under the door.
The shadow under the pantry door stops moving.
Graham eyes the door anxiously, then, swallows.
He nods to himself.
He closes his eyes and mouths Patty Wagon self charmingly.
The shadow under the door remains still.
Graham glances briefly away from the door incredulous.
Then, with his head turned wearily to one side, and ticked defensively back a little drops delicately to a kneeling position.
Bends down and pressing his face to the tiles, peers under the pantry door.
He finds nothing but shards of glass.
Kneeling up again and sighing with relief.
He spots some chopped vegetables sitting on a work top and lying next to them, a large kitchen knife.
Graham contemplates the knife for a moment the reaches out and grabs it.
Holding the knife at belly level, he twists the long wide blade until he's looking at his own reflection in the polished steel.
Glancing up, he reaches forward and positions the knife at a downward sloping angle at the base of the door.
Turning the knife in different directions, cans, bottles, and boxes of food are reflected in the blade.
Graham withdraws the knife and puts it down on the floor beside him.
Then frustrating himself on his belly, he makes to look under the door again.
Having second thoughts, he grabs the knife and kneels up.
Setting the knife back down on the worktop.
He rises to his feet and head bowed strides determinedly out into the hallway.
Stopping in his tracks, Graham turns and marches back in, seizing the knife.
He lies on his stomach by the pantry door.
A clawed hand shoots out from under the door.
Startled, Graham bangs his head and drops the knife.
Retrieving the knife, Graham slices off the creature's fingers.
Started, the flock of birds springs from the maize fields, scattering, and flying away.
Later, Graham returns to the farm house.
Locking the door behind him, he hurriedly checks the handle, then, walks off past the open living room door.
He stops dead and stares, seeing Bo, Morgan, and now Merrill on the sofa wearing silver foil cone hats.
Without flinching, Graham turns stiffly and goes to sit on the stairs.
Merrill sits still with his hands on his knees.
Graham links his hands together.
Merrill turns to Morgan.
Graham makes a pained frown.
Putting one hand on the post at the bottom of the stairs, Graham pulls himself wearily up and plods into the living room, moving up to the sofa.
Bo holds up one arm.
Graham does the same.
Morgan and Merrill raise their arms.
Graham eyes them uncertainly.
All three.
Merrill and Bo lower their arms, Morgan settles himself back down on the sofa.
Graham hesitates a moment then steps forward, and sits beside his son on the end of the couch.
Morgan peers up at his father.
Merrill stares blankly ahead.
He sighs.
Now, in broad daylight, Merrill leaves his converted barn holding a large white cotton sack.
A cigarette in one hand, he jogs down the grey-painted wooden stairs on the side of the building then trudges across the lawn towards the farmhouse.
As he takes a drag on the cigarette, his attention is drawn to the field of maize.
Merrill throws the cigarette butt to the ground, then, slows to a gradual stop.
Dumping the cotton sack, he reaches down, picks up a stone, and launches it into the field of maize.
He stands immobile, watching the crop with anxious expectation.
Behind him, shrubs growing outside the farmhouse are buffeted by the growing wind.
Merrill eyes the crops suspiciously, then, retreats.
He picks up the cotton sack, jogs up the steps to the farmhouse veranda and hits indoors.
Morgan and Bo are glued to the TV screen in the closet.
Graham and Merrill arrive.
They stand and watch.
Graham looks uneasy.
Merrill is deep in thought.
The presenter shifts fearfully.
Unflinching, Graham stares directly at the television screen.
Standing rooted to the floor, Graham continues to scrutinize the images on the TV.
His features sagging mournfully as he reflects on the presenter's words.
He wanders off, leaving Merrill alone with Morgan and Bo.
The two children are mesmerized by the screen.
Merrill kneels down on the floor beside them.
Looking up at Merrill.
Pale with worry, Morgan turns back to the TV.
Graham is now in the room.
He moves to a window, which is being partially boarded up on the inside and peers out.
He then takes a plank of old wood and secures it over the window, blocking out the light completely.
Outside, the silver pipes of a wind chime knock against each other.
Then, more chime are disturbed by the strengthening breeze.
Graham sits indoors in dim lights, staring and failing me ahead.
Merrill sauces into the room and stops next to Morgan and Bo, who are standing against a wall.
Graham nods.
Graham smiles.
Graham turns to look at his brother.
Graham beams.
His lips spread into a smile.
Later, in the dimly little kitchen, pans and bowls, one full of empty eggshells, are stacked up into two sinks.
On a worktop lies a sharp knife along with a skinned onion, some potato peel on top of tomato.
Graham, Merrill, and the two children sit silently at the dinner table in the next room.
Shifting awkwardly in his chair, Graham casts a fleeting glance at the others.
Graham's taken aback.
Graham's lips trembles slightly.
Morgan's eyes are swollen.
He reaches over and stabs his fork into a piece of molten toast, then, sits back down.
Merrill watches in disbelief as Graham tucks into his mount of food.
Bo sitting next to him in tears.
Upset, Graham winces as he eats.
Observing him, Morgan gets up from his chair and goes to his dad who is now throwing down his fork and is sobbing uncontrollably.
Morgan leans into his father who hugs him tightly, then, pulls Bo to his other side.
Merrill is staring self-consciously at his plate when Graham's hand reaches out, and tucks him in the family embrace.
Graham's body rocks as he cries.
At the other end of the table, the red lines on the baby monitor begin to flash.
Graham and his family look up and stare at.
Graham walks slowly across the polished wooden floor into the front hallway.
Reaching the door to the cupboard under the stairs, pulls it open.
He looks at the TV set inside.
It's displaying a test card.
He turns to look back at the others and swallows.
Later, Merrill is upstairs, hammering boards the door to the children's bedroom.
Across the landing in his room, Graham cautiously approaches the window and looks out over the maize field.
His eyes widening and becoming fixed in a fearful stare, he backs towards the bedroom door.
Merrill looks over at him.
Eyes still on the window, Graham sidles out of the room and closes the door.
Graham lifts up a plank and hold across the door.
Merrill taking the other end.
Together, the two men hammered nails through the plank into the door frame.
Bo With Morgan standing at the top of the stairs behind them, watching.
Turning to get another mail, Graham stops and stares at Bo before helping Merrill with another plank.
Bo remains motionless, clinging to her brother.
Bo walks over.
He crouches down.
She shakes her head.
Bo grins at him.
He strokes her cheek.
Graham pulls her towards him.
He picks his daughter up.
Merrill slaps another plank across the bedroom door.
Bo in his arms, Morgan go downstairs into the front hallway.
Graham and Merrill put the children down.
They stop and listen.
They all stare in the direction of the barking beyond the wooden mantle piece which stands at the far end of the room.
Two China dogs sitting on it, one on each side, illuminated by the dim glow of two wall lamps above them.
Graham's eyes dart nervously around.
His fingers tightening on Bo's shoulders in front of him.
He and Merrill exchange anxious glances.
They looked towards a boarded up window to the right of the mantle piece, their gaze passes across the fireplace as they turned to follow the noises.
Shadows flit across the slit of moonlight between two planks across the window on the left of the mantle piece.
Slowly, the family turns to watch the figures block out the soft light, diffusing through the gaps between the boards on another window at the front of the house.
They swing around and stare petrified down the hallway and into the kitchen towards the backdoor.
They turn quickly back around to look at the front door, one plank nailed across the frame halfway up.
The doorknob turns.
Morgan starts to back away.
Graham looks around and puts a comforting hand on Morgan's shoulder before kneeling down in front of the frightened boy.
Graham smiles lovingly as a tear falls from Morgan's eyes.
Merrill stares wearily up the staircase, climbing the first two steps.
He gazes in horror at the unsecured hatch door in the attic.
Merrill and Graham pulled the children down the hallway into the kitchen.
Morgan's terrified eyes focused on the gap at the bottom of the front door as green gray fingers appear underneath it.
Graham hurries down some stairs into the gloomy basement and slams the door shut.
Graham turns suddenly and presses his ear against the door.
His hands pushing against the door, its olive green paint peeling.
Graham looks down at the doorknob.
He grabs it as it starts to turn and holds it tight with both hands, resting his head on the door.
Merrill spots a pickaxe.
As he yanks it off a high shelf, he smashes the light bulb, plunging the basement into darkness.
Morgan turns on a torch and stares down into its bright beam before looking around and pointing it at the door.
Graham and Merrill pushing hard against it, the pickaxe now firmly waged under the doorknob.
Graham turns to put his back against the door.
He shields his eyes from the bright torch beam.
Morgan slowly directs the torch beam around the basement, and starts to walk past a cluttered work bench.
The light falls on Bo, crouched on the floor.
She waves lamely at Morgan.
Merrill finds another flashlight and directs its beam around the walls of the basement, illuminating old wooden shelves, supporting neatly-arranged pickling jars, bowls, ski boots, roller skates, and disordered clatter.
He spots a dusty old radio on one shelf and tuns the dial on the front.
They went around to face the door.
Graham pushes his hand against the door lit by Morgan's torch.
He then turns to face the others.
The pickaxe holds in place as the doors hit.
Graham stares thoughtfully at the door.
Morgan sets the white-headed silver torch on the ground and rolls it across to his father.
Merrill walks over to Graham.
Graham and Merrill move slowly in different directions, working their way around the rough stone walls.
A dry and faded flowery hangs on a hook.
A wire-framed basket hangs on another peg.
They come towards each other again.
Their torch beams picking up the call shoot with roll turning grill across it and Morgan standing in front of it.
Merrill and Graham stand and stare at him, stunned.
A clawed hand pokes through the grill and grabs Morgan's throat.
Graham drops his torch as he rushes to rescue his son.
As he runs away from the call shoot, he kicks the torch which rolls around to pick out Bo's legs, poking out from beneath her silky blue dress as she presses herself up against the wall.
She walks over to the torch, picks it up, and shines it at Merrill, who's stacking crates and live sacks of dog food in front of the chute.
He slides wearily down his barricade to the ground.
Spotting a can of dog food on the floor, he picks it up and rising slightly, reaches up beside him to slap it on top of the pile of sacks.
Sitting back down on the floor, he looks across at Bo, and then, picks up his torch, using it to search the basement for the others.
The beam illuminates his brother, sitting on the floor, leaning against a pillar.
Morgan, sitting between Graham's legs, his head pushed back into his father's chest.
Merrill's eyes widened in alarm.
Graham has one hand on Morgan's chest, the other gripping his son's shoulder.
Bo stares at them wide-eyed.
Graham rests his head against Morgan's.
Bo goes to sit on Merrill's lap, tears welling in her eyes.
Morgan holds the knees of his father's jeans tightly as he struggles with his breathing.
Graham lifts his head slightly and stares angrily into the distance.
His lips quiver.
Merrill wheels Morgan on, mouthing silent words of earnest prayer.
Morgan relaxes his grip on his father's jeans.
Morgan lies back, his breathing returning to normal.
Merrill stares across at them, blinking rapidly.
He swallows.
He turns his off.
Bo turn hers off.
In Graham's mind, he reaches the scene of the accident.
Caroline talks to him.
He stares at the ground.
His lips trembling.
Caroline nods.
She smiles bleakly.
Graham walks slowly past a police car and a huddle of policemen standing over Ray who's sitting on the ground head bowed.
A little way beyond is Ray's Ford pickup truck smashed into the tree, stretched into any of the front and a couple of paramedics standing by.
They turned to look at Graham as he approaches.
Back in the basement, the main light is on.
Graham looks up.
Merrill walks over to the radio.
Graham stares blearily down at the floor.
Graham looks up at Merrill in shock.
Graham gets to his feet and takes a step towards his brother.
Graham looks reflectively down at the ground.
Merrill regards him accusingly.
Graham frowns and shakes his head.
Merrill steps towards him.
Graham nods numbly, his mouth agape.
They turn to look at Morgan asleep on the floor, his head resting on folded blankets.
Graham glances at the door.
Suddenly, thinking of something, Graham walks over to Morgan, and crouching down, lifts up the back of the boy's beige and brown check shirt.
Graham glances up in relieved surprise.
And pulls the baby monitor out of the back pocket of Morgan's jeans.
He switches it on as Merrill kneels beside him.
Merrill removes the pickaxe from under the doorknob and pulls open the door.
Gingerly, he starts to climb the gloomy stairwell leading up into the kitchen, thick rays of sunlight pouring through irregular holes punched into the wooden planks across the window.
In the basement, Graham watches as Merrill tentatively reaches the top of the steps and looks around.
Merrill turns left and disappears from Graham's view.
Merrill reappears, looks down the stairwell, and nods.
Graham carries Morgan slowly up the stairs and into the kitchen, where chairs are strewn across the floor, and the fridge door is open.
Bo follows her father and then wanders out into the hallway as Graham carries Morgan through the dining room and into the living room, staring at the broken planks across the windows.
A table lamp underneath one window is on its side.
A picture hanging below a mounted baseball bat is askew, but otherwise the room is untouched.
Graham lays Morgan gently down on the sofa.
Bo comes back in.
She does a little dance.
She swings her arms and thrusts her hips.
He looks down at Morgan.
He heads to the cupboard under the stairs.
Graham unplugs the set and wields the TV trolley down the hallway into the living room.
He maneuvers it into position and crouches down to plug it in.
He stares in horror at the reflection on the screen, a tall humanoid form silhouetted against the window, holding Morgan across one of its arms.
Graham slowly stands and turns round to face the creature.
Merrill comes in from the dining room and stops in his tracks, dropping the syringe.
Merrill steps forward.
The creature, with its highly domed head, stares between the two men.
Graham looks at the alien's lower arm, which is wrapped around Morgan's back and matches his shirt fabric.
Two of the creatures four clawed digits are missing.
Graham remembers using the knife outside Ray's pantry.
The alien holds its other hand out over Morgan's face, tilting its hand up at the wrist joint.
A sharp spike slides out of the bottom of the wrist.
The alien holding it above Morgan's nose.
Merrill, Graham and Bo stand rooted to the spot, staring in abject horror as the alien looks down at Morgan and then up at Graham.
Graham studies the creature with its smooth-skinned earless head, an odd shaped mouth, dull gray teeth exposed.
He glares into the alien's hooded eyes as he remembers driving to the scene of the accident.
Caroline in the road waving her arms.
Graham narrows his eyes slightly as he remembers crouching by the front of Ray's pickup.
His wife's head rests on the bonnet.
He stares into her eyes and nods.
Graham's eyes fill with tears as he reaches out to take her hand in his.
Graham stares at her, puzzled, through his wet eyes.
Her head lowers.
Graham remembers his conversation with Merrill.
His eyes glazed with tears, Graham stares at the alien as it rocks back and forth, leaning over its captive hanging limply over its arm.
Graham turns slowly from the creature to face Merrill, spotting the baseball bat in its rack mounted on the wall by his brother.
He turns back around to stare with stern determination at the alien.
Merrill remains motionless.
Merrill turns his gaze from the creature to Graham.
And then looks behind him to the bat.
The alien watches him.
Its small eyes glowing green in their sunken sockets.
Merrill takes the bat down.
The alien lowers its hand over Morgan's face.
A gray gash shooting from the spike and into Morgan's nose.
The alien turns.
Merrill launches himself at the creature, striking it in the back.
The alien drops Morgan.
And turns back to face his assailant.
Graham rushes over to pick up Morgan and the dropped syringe.
Merrill strikes the creature in its abdomen.
It falls into a side table, knocking over a glass of water.
As the water spills onto its shoulder, an angry red wound erupts in its green gray skin.
Merrill and Graham stare around the room at the collection of discarded glasses of water.
Graham turns to Bo in astonishment.
And then hurries outside with Morgan in his arms.
Bo following him.
On the veranda, Bo looks back into the living room through a broken window as Graham heads out onto the lawn.
Merrill swings the bat at glasses on the coffee table.
The alien recoils as its skin is splashed with liquid.
Crouched on the lawn, Graham, holding his son across his thighs, adjusts the syringe.
And then, thrusts it into Morgan's leg.
Merrill prepares for another strike.
He slams the bat into the alien.
The creature topples over, landing on his back and knocking against a small sideboard.
Glasses on the sideboard tip over.
Water cascading down onto the crib.
The broken head of the bat lies on the floor, shards of glass around it.
The alien takes deep, difficult breaths.
The alien's chest sinks and fails to rise.
Merrill hurries out into the garden and crouches down by Graham and Morgan.
Graham, his eyes closed, cradles his limp son.
Merrill presses Morgan's neck and recoils.
Merrill turns away.
Bo's face creases as she begins to sob.
Graham opens his moistened eyes.
His face shudders.
Merrill swings round.
Bo looks on in awe.
Graham turns.
Hardly daring to look at his son as Morgan lifts his head.
Graham wipes his eyes.
Graham's bedroom window looks out over the scene.
The family huddled together on the grass near the picnic table and brick barbecue.
Early morning sunshine floods the lawn.
And the expanse of gently waving maize plants beyond.
Below the light catches the sharp edges of the broken window pane.
The light brown curtains flap in the breeze like loosened sails.
The board across another window in the room remain intact.
And large flakes of fresh white snow drift down outside the repaired windows of the room.
The bed is neatly made.
A blue bedspread with white polka dots smoothed across it.
White pillow plumped up against the barred metal headboard.
The door to the on suite bathroom is ajar.
Graham comes out of the bathroom dressed in black trousers and shirt, a white clerical collar around his neck.
He pulls the bathroom door closed, does up his shirt cuff buttons and puts on his watch.
And picking up a black jacket, he goes out, a look of contentment and purpose on his face.
In an interrogation room, a corpulent policeman blows cigarette smoke across the table, into the face of a terrified, sweating, young, male prisoner.
The prisoner, Jamal Malik, blinks rapidly as the smoke stings his eyes.
The policeman suddenly lunges across the table.
A question appears on the screen.
Hands scatter Rupee notes onto the floor.
The show's host.
The host turns to Jamal, standing in the wings of the studio.
Jamal and the host walk to their chairs positioned at the center of the studio stage.
Back in the police cell.
Back in the studio.
The policeman forces Jamal's head into a bucket of water.
A beautiful young woman stands on a train platform.
She looks up and smiles.
The inspector enters a room where Jamal is suspended off the floor by his wrists.
Srinivas reluctantly sets up a car battery when jump leads beneath Jamal's dangling feet.
Srinivas attaches the jump leads to each of Jamal's big toes.
Jamal glares directly into the eyes of the inspector.
The inspector moves to the other side of the room, as Srinivas switches on the battery.
The inspector approaches the now limp body of Jamal again.
He notices that Jamal's eyes are closed and that he's dribbling.
The inspector looks closely at his face.
Jamal stares.
Both the policemen turn slowly toward Jamal.
He spits blood.
A group of scruffy young boys in filthy t-shirts and shorts play cricket on a runway.
Jamal, seen as a young boy here, trips and fails to catch the ball.
The other boys slap their heads.
They brandish long truncheons.
The gang of boys suddenly disperse in all directions.
Another boy turns to make a rude gesture at the security men.
They clap a high-five.
The boys clamber across a rubbish tip, up over corrugated rooftops and down into the narrow alleyways of their slum.
The security men dismount and give chase on foot.
The security guards struggle to follow the tiny boys as they wind and weave through the filthy, narrow streets between shanty buildings.
Some boys throw rubbish from the roofs onto the heads of the guards.
A determined guard perseveres in chasing Salim and Jamal down a walkway and past a river swollen with rubbish, plastic bags, and green slime.
The boys run along a sewage pipe, followed by the guard hot on their heels.
The boys run headlong into a Mercedes.
Javed, the local gangster, sits in the back, shouting, angry at the boys.
The boys run off as the guard then collides with the car.
He backs away apologetically, holding his cap in hand.
The boys taunt the guard, turn a corner, and suddenly run into their mother.
She drags the boys to school.
The teacher sees Salim and Jamal.
The boys fight over the book.
He grabs the book and whacks it over Jamal's head.
Present day, back in the police station, Srinivas inserts a VHS into a player.
Jamal is slumped in a chair opposite the inspector's desk.
Srinivas slaps Jamal.
Jamal stares at the ground.
The inspector points the remote control at the TV.
The five-year-old Jamal squats over a hole in a makeshift shanty toilet.
Salim sits guard outside.
A man rushes down towards the toilets.
Prakash leans over painfully.
Jamal pulls his pants up.
Old clips of Amitabh's 70's action films.
The helicopter flies over Jamal's roofless loo.
Salim jams his chair against the door locking Jamal in.
Through a hole in the wall, Jamal sees hundreds of men women and children flock to the runway.
He kicks the door in vain.
Jamal takes out of his pocket a creased photo of his hero, Amitabh Bachchan.
He looks down through the hole in the floor to the cess pit beneath.
He looks from the cess pit to the photo and back.
Then he pinches his nose, and jumps.
One arm stays aloft, holding the photo clear of the effluent.
Amitabh descends from his helicopter to cheering crowds.
Jamal appears covered from head to toe in excrement.
He dashes towards Amitabh making his way through the crowds of photographers and onlookers.
Salim stands at the front of the crowd hemmed in by security.
In the distance, we see Jamal running holding onto his photo of Amitabh.
The crowd parts for stinking Jamal.
He makes straight for Amitabh.
Salim stares at his brother in disbelief.
People hold their noses.
Amitabh signs the photo and hands it back to Jamal.
A hazy orange sun rises above the teeming streets, slums and skyscrapers of Mumbai.
Jamal's mother.
She scrubs Jamal with soap.
Salim looks back at his brother mischievously and disappears.
A man sits next to a film projector in a cinema.
Salim enters the projectionist's booth.
He shows him Jamal's autographed photo of Amitabh.
The man thrusts the photo into the light from the projector.
He hands Salim two coins.
Salim winks and salutes the man, then bumps into Jamal outside.
Jamal on the video.
The policemen stare at Jamal.
Jamal concentrates hard.
Jamal smiles briefly.
Trains speed through a slum.
Jamal's mother washes brightly colored clothing in a pool as young Jamal and Salim frolic in the water.
Their mother smiles at the two boys playing.
Suddenly, she turns to look at the trains.
She looks worried and scared.
The train passes by revealing a crowd of men wielding clubs, knives, and axes running towards them.
People drop what they are doing and flee.
Jamal's mother screams at the boys.
The attackers bludgeon defenseless men and women.
Jamal watches as his mother is clubbed in the face.
She falls back into the water.
The boys help each other out of the pool and run.
Jamal looks back for his mother but Salim urges him onward.
A man falls and is stamped on by a mob.
Salim and Jamal run past another man throwing a Molotov cocktail at a door.
Jamal and Salim flee down an alley and come face to face with a young boy dressed as the Hindu god Rama.
He is covered in blue paint with his hair bound up on his head.
They both run.
The boys run past the girl, Latika, hiding in an alley.
A man sets another man on fire.
The boys run towards a police station.
Latika falls behind.
The policemen are playing cards.
A man runs out into the street.
His clothes in flames.
The policemen do nothing.
The boys run again, beckoning to Latika to follow.
Jamal's mother lies face down in the pool.
Present day, back in the police station.
Jamal remembers seeing the young boy dressed as the god Rama.
The boys are frozen to the spot momentarily and stare at the bow and arrow in the boy's hand.
Jamal on the show.
Jamal is lost in thought.
Five-year-old Jamal and Salim stand on high ground looking down on their slum burning amidst the riots.
Latika stands some distance away from the boys.
Latika stands in the street drenched in the torrential rain as Jamal and Salim sit in a shelter.
Salim rolls onto his side.
Jamal looks out at Latika in the rain for a moment then lies down.
Jamal and Salim's mother screams as flames explode.
Jamal wakes up.
Salim lies with his back to Jamal, but he's wide awake.
Jamal looks at Latika still out in the rainy street.
She squats down tracing letters in the puddles.
Jamal calls out to her.
She stands up.
She runs over to the shelter.
She squats down next to Jamal.
Latika shakes her head.
Salim's eyes are still wide open.
Latika lies down next to Jamal.
The three children lie on the floor out of the rain shivering in the cold.
Present day, Jamal sits on the studio stage opposite the host.
People scavenge on mountains of rotting rubbish as lauries offload more refuse sacks.
Jamal in the studio looking pensive.
On the rubbish tip, Latika picks through scraps with a stick.
She looks up when a minibus arrives.
She turns and shouts.
Two men emerge from the minibus and approach a makeshift tent.
Two pairs of feet they count.
Jamal and Salim lie dosing in the tent amidst the rubbish.
The smaller man, Maman, kneels at the entrance and strokes Salim's foot.
He wakes up.
He hands him a Coke.
Jamal wakes and is also given a Coke.
Maman pats him on the back, smiling all the way.
The boys grin and gulp down the drinks.
The minibus is driving through lush countryside.
The bus is full of scruffy street kids gazing out of the windows.
The bus arrives at a large dilapidated residence where numerous children of all ages run around playing in the yard.
Some children move around on crutches.
Others play on swings.
Salim smiles and the children on the bus jump around excitedly.
Maman watches as the children are fed a hot meal.
Jamal catches Maman staring at the new arrivals.
Evening, Maman has lined up the new children before him.
Maman closes his eyes and listens to Arvind.
He pats him on the head.
Arvind moves back in line.
Salim steps out to sing.
Maman screws up his face and buries his head in his hands.
He strikes Latika.
He punches Punnoose's thighs as Maman laughs.
Everyone laughs.
Next day, Salim sits with Punnoose in the bus, intently watching a group of kids on a Mumbai street.
Salim approaches the gang of children.
Salim claps his hands.
Jamal stops playing and watches his brother.
Salim slaps the giggling child.
He stalks around malevolently.
The child refuses so Salim snatches the baby from her.
He pretends to drop the baby in front of Latika.
The gang of children run out into the busy street.
Some limp with crutches, others have missing hands.
The children shake containers at people begging for money or food.
Latika wears an eye patch and begs at a stationary car window.
Midnight at Maman's compound.
Jamal points at some dried chillies.
Latika wearing rubber gloves picks up a fist full of chillies.
She crushes them in her palms.
She sneaks into the dormitory where all the children are sleeping on the floor.
She finds Salim sleeping naked under a thin sheet and carefully stuffs the chilies over his groin.
Punnoose dozes, oblivious.
Latika sneaks off back to her side of the dormitory.
Salim suddenly jerks awake.
He dashes to the tap.
Salim douses his groin in cold water.
Punnoose wakes up.
He points at Latika.
Jamal and Latika giggle and smile at each other.
A bearded henchman lights a candle as Arvind sings for Maman.
Maman holds up his hand.
Punnoose shakes a bottle into a cloth then quickly smothers Arvind's face with the cloth.
Salim looks on, eyes wide, mouth agape.
Arvind collapses and Punnoose lifts his limp body to a table.
Salim obeys.
The bearded man burns a sizzling liquid in a spoon over the flame.
He moves carefully with the spoon over to the table.
He opens Arvind's eyelids and pours in the liquid.
Salim can watch no more and kneels to vomit.
Maman watches impassively.
The bearded man binds Arvind's eyes with the bandage and pats his head.
Maman looks at Salim and nods.
The bearded man prepares another spoon of liquid.
Shock registers on Salim's face.
Salim is rooted to the spot.
Maman draws closer to him.
Maman crouches in front of Salim.
Maman gestures for Punnoose to follow Salim.
Jamal starts to dance.
Salim appears.
They shake hands and Jamal follows Salim back to Maman.
Punnoose follows behind them.
Salim leads Jamal towards Maman and his bearded henchman followed closely by Punnoose.
Latika spies on the scene.
Maman and his henchmen look at Jamal astounded.
Latika snickers as she watches Jamal pocket the rupee note.
Punnoose gestures to Salim to pick up the cloth and the chloroform bottle.
Salim takes the bottle then suddenly throws the contents at Punnoose's face.
Salim, Jamal, and Latika run.
The three children run through a forest chased by Maman, Punnoose, and the bearded henchmen.
The children come to a railway siding where they chase a departing train.
Salim is in front and manages to grab hold of the last carriage of the train.
Jamal then reaches out and grabs a hand hold on the train.
The men close in on Latika who is still chasing the back of the train.
Salim stretches out his hand.
Latika touches his fingers when Salim suddenly pulls back.
Latika is left standing on the tracks.
Maman reaches Latika and scoops her up.
Jamal looked stunned.
Jamal looks around the dark railway carriage.
Men are lying down watching them.
Punnoose holds Latika as Maman watches the train.
On the game show, the host stares at Jamal.
Jamal in the police station.
Young Salim and Jamal sit on the roof of the moving train.
Salim stares at a pensive Jamal, then wraps an arm around him.
The boys start selling fruit, nuts, even balloons to passengers on the train.
Salim counts their earnings.
Jamal daydreams and remembers a young Latika standing on the tracks as the train pulls away.
Jamal and Salim sit on the buffers between two carriages chatting.
The train winds its way through lush forests and across wide expanses of Indian countryside.
Salim and Jamal sell trinkets to passengers.
The two brothers sleep in sacks of vegetables.
The guard rouses them and throws them off the train.
Salim sounds on the roof of a train, hauling Jamal up on a rope.
As the train speeds though the countryside, the two brothers doze on the roof, gripping each other's hands.
Salim lowers Jamal by his legs over a window.
Inside the carriage, a family is sharing a huge meal of pickles, rice, vegetables, and chapati.
A young boy in a turban spies Jamal as he reaches in through the window and steals a couple of chapatis.
The boy nudges his father and points.
The father grabs Jamal through the window.
Jamal grips onto the window frame for dear life.
The father violently tugs Jamal and he loses his grip and falls from the train, pulling Salim with him.
The two brothers tumble down a slope next to the passing train.
They eventually sit up, breathless.
Jamal stares at the horizon.
The dust clears revealing the majestic white marbled palace of the Taj Mahal in the distance.
The boys walk through a set of ground gates staring agog at the magnificent architecture.
Jamal notices the hundreds of pairs of shoes left by visiting tourists.
Jamal and Salim steal a pair of trainers each.
A sign reads guided tours visitors are requested to collect receipts.
Jamal stands leaning against the doorway.
Throngs of tourists mill past into the Taj Mahal.
A middle aged couple approached Jamal.
The man offers money to Jamal.
Jamal pockets the cash.
Outside the Taj Mahal, Jamal takes Polaroid photographs of tourists.
Salim steals the tourists' shoes as they pose for Jamal.
The boys sell the shoes from a store.
At night, Jamal and Salim sit smoking a hookah pipe and drinking with friends around a campfire.
Salim wears fancy leather cowboy boots.
By day, Jamal touts for tourists as a guide as Salim counts wads of cash.
Jamal photographs an Asian tourist outside the Taj.
He shows her a picture of Princess Diana in the same spot.
Security guards spot the boys and chase them off.
Jamal guides the tourist couple to a riverside.
Salim and his gang break into the tourist's Mercedes taxi.
Meanwhile at the river
Salim's gang steal the tires off the Mercedes just as Jamal brings the tourists back from the river.
The Indian driver starts hitting and kicking Jamal.
She mouths the word money to her husband.
He takes out his wallet and hands Jamal $bill.
Jamal rubs his eye where the driver punched him.
At night, Jamal knees before a pool and bathes his black eye.
Jamal looks into the night in the direction from where the music is coming.
He walks through a forest toward an outdoor stage.
Salim, Jamal, and their gang of urchins scamper across scaffolding supporting rows of seats above.
The audience are mesmerized by the performance and fail to notice the boys stealing handbags and purses from between people's legs.
Jamal is captivated by the singers on stage.
The male singer knees and cradles the body of a woman.
A thick mist wafts across the stage.
We suddenly seen an image of five-year-old Latika chasing a train followed by an image of a very beautiful Latika, now in her Then, back on the game show, Jamal looks lost in thought.
In the director's edit suite.
The video plays in the police station.
The brothers walk along a pipeline.
From an aerial view, we see the boys are heading toward the distance skyscrapers of Mumbai.
The city sprawls with high rise apartments and green parks, juxtaposed with huge slums and shanty towns.
Jamal walks alone through slum streets strewn with rubbish and debris.
He approaches a group of men scavenging on the rubbish tip.
Jamal wanders the teeming streets of Mumbai by day, and by night.
He questions some young boys his age.
They shake their heads.
He walks through a crowded night market with stalls selling a thousand and one different things.
Then he's in uniform walking through a kitchen.
Salim also in uniform, dozes on a kitchen work top.
Salim wakes up.
Jamal descends into a subway, where a blind Arvind sings and begs.
Jamal stops and recognizes Arvind.
Jamal digs into his pockets, finds the $bill and give it to Arvind.
Jamal takes the note and turns it over.
Arvind feels his way from Jamal's hands up his arms to his face.
He smiles.
Jamal grips Arvind by the shoulders.
Jamal looks happily surprised with the news.
Jamal touches Arvind's face gently and runs off along the subway.
A worker starts to fumigate the subway.
Jamal disappears running through the smoke.
He emerges with Salim through exhaust fumes on Pila Street at night.
The street is lined with brothels.
Prostitutes sitting on chairs on the pavement.
Salim questions a woman.
She shakes her head and they move on.
Jamal asks another woman and she pats his cheek.
A girl in a silk costume and jewelry dances whirling round and round.
Salim and Jamal wind their way down Pila Street.
Women call down from balconies and open windows on men on the crowded street.
Salim and Jamal questioned two women who direct the boys to an entrance down the busy corridor.
The dancing girl continues her steps under the watchful gaze of an elderly male teacher who claps to maintain her tempo.
Jamal and Salim walk through a brothel, pulling aside curtains covering alcoves where couples are having sex.
Jamal approaches a girl.
The girl points to a closed door.
Jamal peers through a crack in the door and sees the beautiful dancing girl.
Salim yanks Jamal away and peers through the hole.
His eye widens in surprise.
The boys burst into the room.
Jamal stares dumbfounded at Latika.
She smiles in recognition.
Maman and his henchmen stand at the door.
Punnoose's face is now badly scarred.
She avoids Maman's eyes but doesn't move.
He reaches over and grabs her roughly.
Salim draws a revolver from behind his back and points it at the men.
Jamal looks astonished at his brother.
Maman draws closer.
Maman leers at Salim.
Salim places a cushion over the gun.
Jamal recoils in horror.
And the men tremble.
Latika rushes to take Maman's money from the floor.
Jamal is rooted to the spot.
The three children flee the scene.
On the game show, Jamal looks deep in thought.
The host points his hand at Jamal mimicking holding a gun.
The scene of Maman's death replays.
The host looks down at his computer screen.
Young Salim, Jamal, and Latika sneak past the sleeping guard and break into a brand new but unoccupied hotel.
They run up a deceased elevator into an atrium door with an enormous gold chandelier.
Inside the hotel room, Salim gleefully pours two bottles of spirit into a pot while Jamal picks a towel out of a cupboard.
Jamal shakes the dusty towel and takes it to the bathroom door.
Salim gulps down some beer.
Salim suddenly looks solemn and leaves the room.
Salim steps out onto the street.
Jamal has his eyes closed and head turned away from a semi- naked Latika.
She smiles as he squeezes his eyes tightly shut.
She goes back into the bathroom.
He keeps his eyes closed for a moment more then slowly opens them.
Salim crosses a road busy with tuk-tuks, cars, bicycles, and carts.
He approaches a cinema kiosk, hands over a coin, and receive the ticket.
On a large balcony above the cinema, six men are drinking and playing a gambling game.
None of the men notices Salim as he steps onto the balcony and swaggers over.
They ignore Salim as he takes out his gun from behind his back.
He points it at one of the men's heads.
Salim slowly turns to face Javed, he nodes.
Javed beckons to Salim.
In the hotel room, Jamal and Latika lie on a mattress on the floor.
Latika makes graceful hand shadows on the wall.
Her arms are painted in intricate gold and henna designs.
They stare at each other for a long time.
Salim returns to the room.
Jamal and Latika snoozing on the mattress.
Salim stands over Latika.
Both Latika and Jamal wake up.
He holds out his hand for Latika.
He leans towards Latika.
Jamal rushes Salim.
Salim eventually overpowers the smaller Jamal and ejects him from the room.
Salim emerges, pointing a gun.
Latika appears and gently pushes Salim's gun down.
Jamal looks incredulous as Salim pulls Latika back into the room.
Jamal remains rooted to the spot.
Back in the police station, the inspector and Srinivas stare at the sweating Jamal.
Srinivas grins.
Jamal leans over toward the inspector.
Two other uniformed policemen rush into the room and eventually subdue a raging Jamal.
The inspector wipes the sweat from his hands and face.
Jamal carries a tray of tea at the call center.
She holds an Eastern magazine.
Jamal rushes around, delivering tea to the call center workers.
They all sit at computers, wearing headsets.
Dave rushes off to a nearby TV showing the game show.
Dave signals to everyone.
They start to dial the number on their mobile phones.
The read out say it has found over 26,Latikas as the name scroll across the screen.
Jamal gulps and puts on his headset.
Across the room, call center managers walk around, monitoring staff calls.
Back on the game show.
The host shakes his head.
The director.
He hands him a check.
Jamal is ascending in a lift on the construction site of a skyscraper.
Hundreds of meters above, Salim waits.
Jamal arrives at the open top floor which has no walls and offers panoramic views of Mumbai.
Jamal sees a guy dressed in an expensive shirt, wearing jewelry and dark glasses.
Salim smiles and removes his glasses.
Jamal lunges for Salim.
They both fall off the building.
Jamal blinks awake from his vision and punches Salim instead.
Jamal and Salim sit on the edge of the building.
The vast city scape is spread out before them.
Salim is phoned.
Salim shakes his head as he watches his brother go.
t night, in Salim's apartment, both Salim and Jamal are asleep.
Salim gets up.
Jamal opens his eyes but lies still.
Jamal sneaks to the landing to spy on Salim downstairs as he loads a gun.
Jamal watches as Salim kneels on a mat to pray.
Salim touches his forehead to the ground.
Salim leaves his apartment block and heads for his car.
As Salim drives off, Jamal appears in a tuk-tuk, following closely behind.
Salim's car pulls up to a sprawling palatial house situated on the hillside surrounded by construction sites.
He drives through the electronic gates.
Jamal's tuk-tuk then arrives outside the gates.
He jumps out then watches Salim approach a beautiful woman in dark glasses standing on a balcony.
Salim collects a small package from her then drives past the gates where Jamal is hiding.
The young woman notices Jamal lurking at the entrance as a guard closes the gates.
The guard goes to the gatehouse.
The woman removes her glasses for a better look at Jamal.
Jamal and Latika stare at each other.
The guard presses the intercom.
The guard approaches to open the gates.
Latika quickly moves inside the house.
Jamal enters an expensively furnished marble living room.
He sees Latika behind the glass partition separating the room from a kitchen and approaches.
She removes her dark glasses and stands expectantly as he steps from behind the partition.
They both stand stock still.
She takes a sharp intake of breath.
She smiles as he moves towards her then they embrace each other tightly.
Suddenly, she looks scared and backs away.
He looks at her shocked.
A silver Mercedes pulls up to the house.
As Javed steps into the living room, Latika puts an apron over Jamal's neck.
Javed walks straight into the kitchen and levels his malevolent gaze at Latika.
He points to the game show on TV.
He walks into the living room and sits down in front of a widescreen TV.
He switches on the cricket game.
Latika nervously prepares a sandwich for Javed.
Jamal spreads a concoction of preservatives onto a slice of bread as Latika dumps a limp piece of lettuce on the plate.
Jamal and Latika exchange nervous glances.
He grabs her hand.
She breaks his hold, lifts the plate, and takes it to Javed.
She passes in front of the TV.
and Javed shoos her out of the way back to the kitchen.
Javed watches the game.
He throws his drink.
Jamal looks pleadingly at Latika.
Javed, still transfixed by the cricket game, takes a bite of his sandwich.
He looks disgusted and spits it out onto the plate.
He walks into the kitchen.
He glares at Jamal.
He goes back to the cricket, swearing under his breath.
Latika pushes Jamal toward the door.
She slowly shakes her head.
She pushes him out of the door.
He remains in the courtyard looking back at her.
Jamal takes a deep breath and raises his eyes upwards.
The cricket match replays.
He tenses his jaw muscles then hands back the check to the host.
Jamal looks out of a train window as it races through the city.
The train pulls into a large station.
He jumps off.
Hundreds of passengers alight from the train and throng on the platforms.
An enormous station clock shows five minutes to five.
Now the clock shows five-fifteen.
As Jamal moves along the walkway looking down on the platform, he scans the busy platforms and looks at the overhead clock.
He rests his head on his hands on despair then he squats down.
Latika appears on the platform.
She's looking around her.
Jamal looks up and catches sight of her.
He stands up immediately.
She looks very anxious.
She looks up to the walkway, sees Jamal, and smiles.
Suddenly, Jamal notices Salim and two men sprinting on the platform towards Latika.
He points behind her
She sees Salim and runs onto a waiting train.
Salim finds her and pulls her off the train by her hair.
He grimaces towards Jamal rushing down a flight of stairs.
Then with the other men, they manhandled the three the crowd to the exit.
Salim forces Latika into a waiting car.
Jamal is still trying to weave his way through the crowds.
Jamal arrives to see one thug holding a blade to Latika's face.
Salim points threateningly at Jamal.
The thug slices the blade across her face.
He jeers at Jamal as he slams on the car window.
Jamal looks on helplessly as the car speeds off into the traffic.
Behind the scenes, the host walks into the toilets.
Jamal sits in the cubical.
The host goes to urinal.
He leaves the toilets.
Jamal exits the cubiclal and approaches the sink to wash his hands.
He looks at himself in the mirror and sighs.
He notices at the bottom of the mirror the letter B has been written in the condensation.
His jaw drops as he looks through the door.
He looks puzzled as he returns to the studio floor.
With a sly look, the host sees Jamal being led in by staff.
Jamal sits back in his chair and stares at the host.
Lights come on and illuminate the host's false smile.
Jamal looks up from the screen to see a nasty grin on the host's face.
Again, we see that written in the condensation.
The host's face hardens suddenly.
Jamal shakes his head.
Again, Jamal shakes his head.
The host tenses his jaw.
The host looks disappointed.
The host rubs his chin and shifts uncomfortably in his chair.
He shakes his head.
With eyebrows raised, he regards Jamal.
The audience are on their feet.
The director and his assistants all smile.
The host gets up
He dances.
He pats Jamal patronizingly on the back of his head.
Then he glares at the director off-stage.
The director gives him a happy thumbs up.
The host maintains a grim serious expression.
A smile appears fleetingly on Jamal's face as the host grins through gritted teeth.
Backstage, the host waits for Jamal to leave.
Jamal turns to follow the host down the corridor.
He slaps him on the back then grips him by the shoulder.
Two policemen stand outside the door.
They cover Jamal's head in a blanket.
The director approaches the host.
The policemen bundle Jamal into a waiting vehicle.
Srinivas is at the wheel.
At the police station, the inspector and Jamal drink milky tea in glasses.
Jamal gulps his down quickly.
The inspector makes to leave the room.
Jamal is outside Javed's luxurious house.
Through the windows, he sees that much of the furniture has been removed.
He bangs his head on the door in frustration.
The inspector leaves.
Jamal looks down at the ground, exhausted.
A news read on TV.
Salim and Latika glanced at each other then back at the TV.
A livid scar is revealed along Latika's cheekbone.
In the room with him are a number of girls, thugs, and Javed.
Latika sees Jamal on the TV.
Javed snatches the remote control and changes the channel.
He gestures for the girls to dance.
Latika leaves the room.
Salim looks over and notices she's gone.
Scantily clad girls flood with the thugs.
A girl tries to dance with Javed while he's on the phone.
He bats her away.
He moves to a quieter room.
Salim watches the girls cavorting with no interest.
He leaves and joins Latika next door.
Latika wipes tears from her face.
Salim walks over.
He holds out a set of keys.
She takes the keys.
He shakes his head.
He takes out his phone and dials a number.
Then he closes the phone and hands it to her.
He gently strokes her cheek near the scar.
He holds the door open for her.
He closes the door behind her.
She dashes towards his car.
Salim walks back to the main room.
Javed is still on the phone.
Latika starts the car.
Srinivas throws water to dozing Jamal.
Latika is now driving at a high speed on packed roads.
Crowds cheer outside the studio as Jamal arrives in the police van.
Cameras flash.
Latika has to slow down as she hits major traffic jams.
Latika is in the middle of a gridlock road.
The studio lights come on as technicians assemble equipment.
An old woman sees Jamal in the van.
The crowd begins to gather.
People start to cheer.
People all over the country gather in front of TVs to watch.
Latika sits in her car in traffic.
Crowd stand outside electrical good shops, watching the show on TVs in the window.
An entire family has gathered, having supper in front of the TV.
Main room at the Excel Five Call Center is virtually empty.
A manager walks in.
The TV room is packed with staff.
The manager sees Jamal appear on the screen.
In the studio, as the host leads Jamal to his chair,
in the street, Latika decides to dump the car and walk.
Latika stops outside in the electronic shop then joins the crowd watching Jamal on the screen.
Jamal smiles as he recollects his teacher beating him with the book and sheltering from the rain as a child saying she could be the third musketeer.
Latika smiles as she watches.
Latika realizes she's left Salim's phone in the car.
Latika dashes back in the direction of the abandoned car.
Meanwhile, Salim puts his gun down and washes his face.
The host looks to the director who shakes his head and makes a cutting motion across his throat.
Latika reaches the car.
Salim scatters thousands of rupee notes into a bath tub.
Salim lies in the bath of money with his gun.
Crowds fall silent as they watche the TVs.
Jamal shrugs his shoulders nonchalant.
Javed is at Salim's door.
Javed's men draw their weapons.
Javed bursts in.
Salim shoots him.
Joyful crowds run out onto the street, celebrating.
Javed's men rush in and shoot Salim.
Rupee notes flutter into the air.
Salim's head falls back.
Glittery ticket tape cascades down over Jamal.
Crowds all over the country rejoice.
Two women present an enormous check for million rupees to Jamal.
The host slaps Jamal on the back and wraps his arm around his shoulders.
Jamal stares out into the crowd, in shock.
Latika runs through the streets, towards the train station.
There is Jamal, huddled by a pillar, waiting for her.
His arms are folded around his knees.
He stares down at the ground, lost in thought.
He takes a deep breath and sighs heavily.
He glances to his right, where he registers the figure of Latika through the gaps in the trains.
She wears a yellow headscarf.
Jamal springs to his feet and stares, unable to believe his eyes.
He runs across the station tracks.
We see a montage of images from Jamal's past.
Scenes from Amitabh Bachchan's classic 70's films.
A five-year-old Jamal, covered in excrement.
Brandishing his autographed photo.
Jamal's mother screaming.
A blind Arvind smelling the hundred dollar bill.
A five-year-old Salim, grinning mischievously.
Latika sees Jamal running towards her, and smiles.
and smiles.
He jumps down to cross the train tracks.
The platform is completely empty as he moves towards her.
In the background, a group of men and woman start to spill onto the platform.
Jamal gently removes Latika's head scarf, to reveal her scar.
She looks downcast in shame.
He lifts her chin and then kisses her softly on the cheek.
A flood of images move backwards in time.
The car carrying a bleeding Latika reverses to the station.
Jamal runs backwards through the crowd.
Latika is pulled out of the car.
Salim back pedals out of the station.
Finally, Latika stands smiling up at Jamal.
He kisses her on the lips.
People now stand along the platform with Jamal and Latika at the forefront.
In unison, everyone starts a typical Bollywood dance routine.
to moody blue sky with tarring white and gold clouds.
A woman in Grecian style robes held aloft a shining torch.
Pages of comic magazines, the words bap and boom and finally marvel.
A ray of blue light.
starring Tobey Maguire.
Then it's as if ones punching through a red, smoky tunnel like the inside of an archery, but always the spider's web is there.
Muscular arm and a clenched hand have entwined in the web.
The hand stretches up and catches hold of more silk threads.
A sharp featured head, more like a mask, with long pointed ears, a humped nose, barred teeth and the jutting jaw.
The opening titles continue now with the animated background of skyscrapers.
Two hands touch fingertips to fingertips.
The picture spins round and window frame appear.
A large guy eating a doughnut.
A youth chases a school bus.
The bus stops, and the youth with dark hair and spectacles climbs on.
The pasty-faced young man, Timothy, makes his way down the bus.
A girl, with her hair in bunches and wearing big spectacles, puts her books in the empty seat beside her.
A guy, Flash Tompson is armed around Mary Jane, nods to another student.
The doughnut eater shakes his head.
Young Parker keeps walking, his eyes fixed on Mary Jane, not seeing a leg stuck out in front of him.
He tumbles to the floor, and his specs fall off.
The yellow school bus rolls on.
Outside Columbia University.
As Parker approaches Mary Jane, she smiles and waves, he waves shyly back only to find she was greeting to girl friends walking behind him.
A Rolls Royce pulls out.
The sulky, young man clamors out and addresses Parker.
Peter and Harry turn away.
Peter points his camera.
Flash Thompson bumps him.
Harry goes across to Mary Jane.
Peter overhears.
Harry turns to him and grins.
The spider's up above.
The teacher leads Harry away.
Peter stares at the inquisitive Mary Jane.
She's standing infront of the display of spiders in their transparent, plastic cages.
Peter is wide-eyed as he gazes forlornly at her.
She moves to the side of the display, and he stands in front of a TV monitor.
The missing super spider starts to ease its way down a silky thread from its newly spun web.
Mary Jane continues to pose.
She holds some notes and points to them.
The spider inches its way down towards Peter.
As it settles on Peter's hand, Mary Jane's friend calls to her.
Mary Jane turns and goes.
The spider bites Peter.
He shakes it off.
It lands on the gray, carpeted floor and scuttles away.
Peter examines the bite.
There's a circle of red around the already swollen area on the back of his hand.
On the monitor behind Peter in the Genetic Research Institute, the DNA of a new species of spider like the one which bit Peter is displayed.
A man in a green, flight suit is standing on a levitating glider.
Norman turns to Strom.
The general walks away, leaving a pensive Norman.
Inside a suburban house, Peter's Uncle Ben is changing a light bulb.
Leaving his concerned aunt and uncle downstairs, Peter absently makes his way upstairs to his room.
He strips off his shirt and vest.
His skinny frame wavering in front of a tall mirror.
He collapses on his bed then rolls off onto the floor.
He grabs the tartan blanket lying on top of the bed and hauls it over him.
Flashing through Peter's mind are the spiders, the DNA, the helix being split and another part being fused in sending a surge of power through the rest.
At Oscorp.
Norman strips to the waist and takes bottle from Strom.
He gulps down its contents.
Having flung the bottle to the floor, Norman lifts opens the metal with strengths on the sliding trolley and lies down on it.
Strom fastens the manacles over Norman's chest, legs, and upper arms.
Norman is firmly attached to the trolley.
The grim-faced Strom hurries over to a control panel.
The trolley glides into a large, glass chamber.
The doors slide closed.
Once inside, the trolley raises from a horizontal position to a vertical one.
Norman all the while firmly locked into it.
Strom looks on.
Norman nods to his colleague.
Pushing another switch, Strom watches as a large file containing a green liquid empties.
Vapor rises in the chamber.
The green vapor engulfs Norman.
Strom watches a computer generated image of the level of the green gas in the chamber as it rises to fill it.
He then looks at another screen monitoring Norman's physiology.
The heart rate increases reaching Norman's body is convulsing.
Strom runs to the panel.
He starts venting the gas chamber.
Norman's head shakes and only the whites of his eye show.
The convulsing stops but Norman is held upright by the restraints.
He flat lines.
Strom enters the chamber.
He attempts heart massage standing up.
The pulse returns.
Norman's eyes flash over.
He grabs Strom by the throat.
He flings Strom through the glass of the chamber.
Now freed, Norman leaps out strong.
Peter wakes from his fitful sleep and picks himself up off the floor.
Peter reaches for his spectacles.
He puts them on, then quickly takes them off.
He tries again and once more removes them.
He holds them up in front of his face.
When he looks through them everything is blurred.
When he moves them away his vision is clear.
He folds them up.
He lays them down.
He does a double take on seeing is physique in the mirror.
He flexes his muscles.
He turns away from admiring his new body in the mirror and reaches for his shirt.
Glancing through the window he catches sight of Mary Jane, MJ in her room in the house next door.
He smiles as she primps her hair.
He walks back to his mirror and grins.
Coming downstairs he places one hand on the molding, walks on the wall around the corner, and then leaps to the ground.
Peter heads out.
Peter stands and stares having witnessed the altercation between MJ and her father.
He sets off down the street after the pretty young red head who is wearing Calfland's boots, short skirt and a zipped cardigan.
MJ marches down the sidewalk, arms folded.
She reaches the school bus stop and grinds the sole of her left boot on the ground.
Peter's a bit behind.
MJ climbs into her friend's Ford Mustang Convertible.
The school bus beats past now chased by Peter.
He makes a grab for the bus and catches hold of a poster stuck to his side.
It comes away in his hand and rips its full length.
The bus zooms on leaving Peter in the middle of the street with a large portion of the poster sticking to his fingers.
He looks at his hand and ponders.
The imposing Osborne home.
Harry rushes into the study where his father is lying face down on the floor.
He helps his father to a seat.
A flashback.
Norman stares in shock.
Peter is having lunch at school.
He looks up from his French fries and sees MJ walking towards with a tray of food.
He smiles at her.
But her smile is for the people behind him.
As she passes she slips on a spilled drink.
Peter leaps to his feet, catches her, then the tray, then the food.
Peter grins inanely.
Raising her eyebrows MJ tries to coax an answer from him.
She walks off.
Peter gawps at her retreating figure.
Then he sits back down at the table letting out a big sigh.
He raises his right hand, a fork is sticking to his palm.
He can't shake it off.
So he pulls the fork.
It's attached to web like threads coming from his wrist.
It snaps.
But another web shoots across to the next table and then sneers a tray.
Peter holds it towards him.
He ducks, it flies over his head and lands on the back of Flash Thompson who is with MJ.
Covered in mush the guy turns around as Peter makes a quick exit.
Tracking the tray behind him.
Flash glares.
As Peter walks out of the swing doors, so the tray is trapped on the swing shot.
Later Peter strides towards his lock and examining his wrist as he goes.
Flash marches after him pushing students out of his way.
Peter stands staring at his unopened locker.
He hears a paper airplane zooming down the corridor towards a fly hovering by the fire alarm bell.
In slow motion he hears a spit word being propelled from a blow pipe.
Then a fist.
He swerves to his side as Flash's punch lands on the locker door.
Flash even with his left hand aims two punches at Peter who gobs and weaves out of the way.
Then in slow motion Flash throws another punch which Peter just swerves away from.
Then a punching white.
Peter arches his back as they are doing a lingo dance and evades it.
To avoid Flash's colleague Peter flips into the air, somersaults and lands on his feet.
Flash charges again.
He fails to connect.
Peter grabs his arm, then he punches Flash.
Then he slides on his back down the corridor, collides with a teacher carrying the tray and ends up with more food on him.
MJ looks at him in wonder.
Flash's crony.
Harry seems awestruck.
MJ un-sure.
And Peter looks confused and a little frightened.
He races off.
Peter runs across a street intersection and comes to a gateway leading into an alley.
He stops out of sight of the passersby on the sidewalk and scrutinizes his wrist where the web shot from.
He then turns over his hand to examine again the swollen bite mark.
He looks up and sees a spider's web woven round the coils of barbed wire above the gateway entrance.
He moves his hands closer to his face.
On the pads of his fingertips barbed bristles are beginning to grow.
Peter stares at the brick building behind him.
Then one after the other, places his hand on the surface and starts to climb.
With competitive ease Peter scales the high sided brick building, his fingertips almost sticking to the surface as he makes his way out.
Halfway up he stops and looks down.
Peter is running across the roofs of tall buildings and bleeping across the gaps between them.
Two children playing with a skipping rope are oblivious as Peter lounges himself into the air way above their heads.
He lands on another roof and comes to a halt at the edge.
Once again, he scrutinizes his wrist.
Opposite him and across the road is a crane.
Peter thinks for a moment then loops from his wrist to the crane.
He thrust his arm forward towards the jib.
Still nothing, he tries again.
Out flies a column of threads.
Palm uppermost, he flexes his wrist again and another web shoots out and falls to the ground.
On the third attempt, the web wraps round the jib of the crane.
Peter has hold of the other end.
He grabs it in both hands and leaps up onto the wall surrounding roof.
He takes a quick glance down to the street below.
Then studies himself, ready to jump.
Clinging for dear life to the web, he swings to the air like Tarzan on a creeper and lands running on the roof opposite.
Unable to stop, he smashes into a wall poster and slams to the ground.
Later that evening, he races to his aunt and uncle's house.
In the darkness inside he sees the paint, brushes, roller and tray all set out.
He crosses over to the sink where he spots a note.
Michelangelo! Meat loaf and veggies in the oven.
His attention is drawn to the argument across at MJ's.
His face falls.
He takes the garbage out.
The backyard of the houses are separated by a small wire fence.
MJ barges out of her back door.
She stands there for a moment, then turns to Peter.
She sticks her hands on her coat pockets.
She moves a little closer to him.
She looks a little coy.
He leans on the fence.
MJ gives a little shrug of her shoulders.
Her eyes fixed on his face, she moves over towards the fence.
They both turn on hearing the engine of Flash's convertible.
Peter's on his way to look down the passage way between the houses.
Peter flicks to the paper, looking at cars for sale.
Auto's away offers used cars at great prices over $27,000, over $25,He turns the page.
Motor Town used cars are cheaper, only around 15,On the next page, prices are down to around $3,Peter then spots an advert.
Need cash?
Amateur wrestlers, $3,for 3 minutes on the ring, colorful characters a must and a phone number.
He dreams of MJ and the sports car.
Peter writes costume possibilities and sketches a cape for go.
He writes utility belt then puts the lines for it.
He screws up the paper.
More sketches then symbol for the question mark.
Now he draws spiders on the page.
He imagines a spider with red legs and a blue body with red dot.
A red checked mask comes into his mind and the inevitable spider's web.
He adds color.
Red checks on boots at the blue body stocking.
Next to complete the join, red checks all over the head mask show the blades, center strip down the chest and round the waist and a touch of red along the arm.
Next morning using a can of Dr. Pepper as a target, Peter is busy fine tuning his wrist webbing.
He pulls it too and then catches it.
He's not so lucky with the bed lamp.
Peter closes the partly open door.
He turns round.
His room has spider's web dangling from wall to wall.
Norman Osborn is reading the Daily Bugle.
The devils in Norman's mind cause him to close his eyes tightly and he shakes his head wearily.
Uncle Ben gives an OK sign to Aunt May as Peter walks out of the door.
Downtown, the four-dour automobile pulls up at the curb.
Peter looks away.
A look of pain creases Uncle Ben's face.
He nods of his head slightly.
A somber Peter again looks away from his uncle.
Uncle Ben, his face grim, gets ready to move off.
Peter combers out of the car and stands on the middle of the road.
A brown paper bag in his hand.
He starts to cross the road.
Watches as his uncle makes a left turn out of sight.
And then he walks off away from the library.
Peter makes his way up a stairway on the wrestling arena.
From the balcony, he watches as Bone Saw McGraw, the master of disaster,slams an opponent on the floor then jumps on him leading with an arm to his throat.
The large, long-haired, muscle man takes the ploddeds.
Fans rub big toy saws over their arms.
Being massaged by four leather-clad beauties.
Peter joins the queue.
Bone Saw hauls his opponent out of the ring.
Bone Saw grabs the mic.
Peter bolts then slips through the ropes.
Th crowd charm the hostility as the cage is set up above the wrestling ring.
Peter wear the spider and web brazened on his sweatshirt looks up as the cage is slowly lowered around the ring trapping him in.
Bone Saw charges.
As Peter leaps in the air.
Bone Saw cunks into the cage.
Bone Saw jumps up.
Peter somersaults out of his weight.
Then uses his web to leap out of reach.
Bone Saw is handed a folding chair.
He crashes it twice over Peter's head.
And when Peter's done, thuds it across his back.
Grabbing Peter by a leg, Bone Saw crashes the youth into the cage bars.
Bone Saw's handed a golf club.
As the big wrestler charges, Peter on his back on the floor, lashes outwith his right foot into Bone Saw's body and face.
Bone Saw comes again, Peter uses both feet and propels the big man under the ropes.
Bone Saw collapses to the floor.
Peter's eyes sparkle with the with the eye-hole at the balled cover, as he listens to the crowd.
Later, in the arena office, $is laid on the desk in front of him.
Peter waits expectantly.
Peter screws up his face.
Peter glares at the promoter and then storms out of the office, passing a tall, burly unshaven guy with bleached hair who barges in and throws a canvas bag at the promoter.
In the corridor, Peter overhears.
Through the frosted glass wall, Peter sees the gunman cob the promoter.
The gunman makes his escape.
Peter stands aside as the robber escapes in the elevator.
The promoter with a gash on the right side of his temple sneers at the youth.
Then heads back along the corridor after the security guard.
Peter smacks as he calls the elevator.
Outside is a hooded jogging top over the sweatshirt.
He watches police cares draw up.
Peter sees a crowd of people milling around on the sidewalk.
He looks on curiously.
Peter pushes his way through the crowd.
He's lying on the ground.
Peter is beside him.
The gray-head old man opens his eyes and tries to focus.
His eyes light on Peter and he attempts a smile.
The old man takes his nephew's right hand in his.
Uncle Ben's eyes close.
His head lulls to one side.
His grip on Peter's hand loosens until his hand slips out of the youth's grasp.
Peter, tears running down his cheeks, looks at the peaceful face of his dead uncle.
The young man sobs.
Having overheard the cop, Peter's face grows determined.
His jaw set.
He stands up and walks away.
He runs into a dark alley way, pulls off his zipped up jogging top, put on his balaclava.
Spider-Man leaps up on a wall at the end of the alley way.
He clambers, climbs, and leaps up the side of a building, almost scurrying along with great speed.
He spots a flag pole on a building opposite and jumps sailing through the air, grabbing the pole with both hands, then like a gymnast swings round and round until he builds the momentum to catapult him through the air on to the adjoining rooftop.
He leaps from roof to roof until he lands on top of a dome.
Far below, he sees the automobile being chased by police.
He shoots a web to an adjacent building.
He looks up at the corners of the building to which his web is attached.
Glances down at the streets way below then takes a deep breath.
He launches himself off the dome.
As he races towards the building opposite, he shoots another web to pull him away.
Then another as he zig-zags his way along far above the trolling streets.
Each time it seems he's going to plummet to the ground, he shoots out another web and pulls himself along, again like Tarzan swinging from vine to vine.
Down below, the hijacked car takes a right gliding behind him and sending water into the air.
Still, the police pursued the stolen car.
Up above Spider-Man is gaining on.
He comes lower and lower until he can leap out of the roof of his uncle's car.
He punches through it.
Spider-Man grabs hold of the carjacker, who pulls a gun.
As gunshots pepper the roof of the car, Spider-Man leaps up to the roof of a passing truck.
Balancing on both feet, he keeps his eyes firmly on the stolen car.
A bridge moves ahead.
Spider-Man vaults into the air, across the bridge, and lands back on the roof of the truck.
Spider-Man throws himself onto the cars ballot and punches through the windscreen.
The car swerves, hits a ball out, then crashes into a set of iron gates.
A posse of police cars builds up behind a smashed vehicle.
The carjacker has made his escape from the vehicle and is creeping to a darkened warehouse.
His gun is held shakily in his left hand.
As he reloads his piece, a shadow looms above his head.
He's been surround.
He shoots at the moving shadow.
Trying to run from it, he fails to see Spider-Man lowering himself for a better look.
At a locked door, Spider-Man catches up with him.
He smashes the car thief's head into the glass panels on the door then sends him flying across the room.
The thief lunges with a knife.
Spider-Man kicks it from his grasp.
balaclava off.
Peter strides forward.
Peter grabs the man by the lapel.
It's the thief from the arena.
He remembers only too well letting the man pass.
He reflects on Uncle Ben lying on the ground then backs away.
The thief raises his gun.
He holds it to Peter's forehead.
Peter knocks the hand away and twists the thief's arm.
The gun drops.
The thief staggers back and trips.
A police's spotlight illuminates a second floor window through which the thief has fallen.
It moves down to pick out where he has landed face down.
Peter gazes down from the darkness.
The spotlight returns to the window.
His features lit up, Peter turns in horror.
Police swarm all over the warehouse.
They creep forward, guns held at one hand and torch lights in the other.
They reach the window to find no one there.
Peter is sitting with his elbows resting on his knees out in the open air.
A light breeze ruffling his short dark hair.
His face sad had his eyes moist.
Around and beneath him, the lights of New York.
He opens the front door of his home.
Inside, sitting in the darkness is Aunt May wrapped in her padded housecoat.
She rises as he enters, crosses over to him, and throws her arms around his neck.
Standing by the front door, he hugs her tight.
At Quest Proving Grounds, bunker six, a car draws up.
General Slocum emerges from it.
the two Men move into the bunker.
The exoskeleton is powered up.
Captain Curtis is upright inside the tall rocket as it lifts off.
A green fireball.
A shape heads for the bunker.
Total destruction.
At the graduation, Peter's classes photograph.
Harry turns to his father.
Father and son shake hands.
Peter in his mortarboard and gown stands awkwardly.
They spots MJ with Flash.
They part.
Peter nods his head stiffly and manages a weak smile.
Later, he and Aunt May arrived home.
Peter in suit, shirt, and tie.
Aunt May in a floral suit, hat, and carrying her gloves.
Peter turns and charges sturdy up the stairs to his room.
Aunt May takes a few paces forward, her head tilted to one side and watches with a sad and witty face until he disappears.
That night, he's sitting up in his bedroom, his tie loosened a little but still on.
Tears rolling slowly down his cheeks, he gazes distantly ahead.
Aunt May in her dressing gown comes to the doorway and softly comes in.
Her hands on her lap, she sits down next to her nephew on the bed.
He acknowledges her presence with a hint of a smile.
she's leaning close to him.
Her hands on his shoulders.
He smiles.
Aunt May rises and puts her right hand on his left shoulder.
She gently squeezes it.
she goes.
Peter sits deep in thought.
Then a sparkle comes into his eyes.
Inside a small case is a sweatshirt with a spider and web motif.
Underneath it is a sketchpad on which he do the original snug-fitting Spider-Man outfit, blue body stocking, a hooded mask, red and black checked shoulder pants and the chest.
In the center of the chest, a large black spider.
The New York City streets.
A delicatessen run by an Oriental couple is being held up.
As the two robbers make their escape, Spider-Man swoops down on them.
The stolen money has returned.
Two robbers thrust up on a giant spider's web.
A girl is being rubbed at a gun point.
The front page of the Daily Bugle.
MJ in a waitress outfit walks out of the Moon Dance Diner, putting on her coat.
Peter is on the sidewalk as she passes behind him.
He senses her presence and turns.
He chases after her.
They look awkwardly at each other as Enrique heads back to the diner.
MJ opens her coat to let Peter see her uniform.
Peter nods.
He stands there with a stupid smile and a blank expression.
Once again, he simply nods and turns to watch her go.
She gives him a little wave.
With a dejected look on his face, Peter walks off down the street.
Later, he enters the apartment he shares with Harry.
Norman Osborne is on the phone.
Peter sounders over to Harry.
Harry looks up at him.
Harry looking a little sheepish, turns to them both.
He reads the Bugle's reward for a Spider-Man photo.
An armored car hoist.
A camera is suspended in a web.
Spider-Man swoops in, floors four robbers, and flips another over the shoulder in a double move.
Spider-Man kicks a gun from a robber's hand then jumps on him.
He turns to the camera.
A photograph of Spider-Man swinging off a roof, crawling down a building, saluting the cops, looking at them is the Bugle's editor, J. Jonah Jameson.
Peter hands back his photographs.
To a girl at a desk.
The girl writes a check.
Peter has his camera slung around his neck.
Across the city in the high-rise Oscorp building, Norman is chairing a meeting.
Norman rises and faces the other ten board members.
Norman glares at Henry Balkan sitting directly opposite him.
The older man sips from a cup of coffee as it gazed fixed on Norman, who wipes his mouth with the back of his hand.
A lopsided grin appears on Norman's face.
Colorful balloons and costumed revelers filled Times Square.
Peter's there with his camera.
Photo kicks away with his camera.
He aims it at a balcony high up on a massive stone building.
He sees Harry up there with MJ who's wearing a high-colored Chinese dress.
Harry places his finger tips on her chin and leans in close to try and kiss her.
She turns her head away.
Down below, Harry sees Peter neck-craned watching.
MJ and Harry turned to go inside.
Peter senses something and looks around uneasily.
Harry meets an Oscorp board member who's in a wheelchair.
Peter is disturbed and shifts his gaze under the sky.
Beyond the Times Square building with a singular wireless cubed top, another advertising hoardings, an object is moving towards the crowd.
Everyone turns to look up.
Balkan watches through binoculars.
Astride the glider is a figure in the stolen green flights like a goblin that has a sharp, featured head, long pointy ears, large yellows eyes and nose and bare teeth.
The glider circles the tall singular building then heads towards the balcony weaving this way and that, past giant balloon figures floating above the festival.
The laughing goblin throws something at the building with the balcony.
Explosions ripped out the windows and the floor below the balcony.
Balcony starts to collapse.
Peter's webs pull two people away from falling masonry.
MJ is stranded on a swaying piece of balcony.
Peter runs through the crowd and pull at his clothes.
Underneath them, the Spider-Man costume.
A pillar crashes a police car.
The glider comes back to the balcony.
The Green Goblin holds a pumpkin bomb which incinerates the board members.
Harry is hit by a piece of masonry and knocked out.
The Green Goblin glides up.
Spider-Man swoops down and kicks the goblin from the glider.
The goblin lands on top of a marquee.
The glider shoots into a hot air balloon.
And out on the other side.
A little boy is rooted to the spot.
The world unity festival hoarding is falling towards him.
It's Spider-Man to the rescue.
Police converge on the Green Goblin.
The green meanie easily just punches the cops with his fist.
Spider-Man swings in front of him and throws a punch.
But the goblin catches his hand, then kicks Spider-Man in the chest, propelling him backwards.
He comes to a stop with a lamp post, which crashes onto a passerby.
The goblin leaps back onto the glider.
The glider is fitted with guns.
The goblin pursues the running Spider-Man, firing at it.
A missile just misses Spider-Man who leaps onto a large inflatable.
Hearing MJ's screams, Spider-Man leaps from inflatable to inflatable and uses one in the same of a kangaroo as a trampoline.
Just as he bounces towards the balcony, the Green Goblin on the glider grabs him from behind.
He crashes him against the stained glass window and smashes his head repeatedly against it.
Spider-Man elbows goblin in the face then breaks free.
The two slug it out until Spider-Man falls to MJ.
The goblin descends on the glider.
Spider-Man shoots a web into goblin's face.
Spider-Man cuts an electric car cell from the under side of the glider.
As the goblin escaped, MJ falls from the balcony.
Spider-Man dives after MJ as she plummets towards the ground and catches her in his arm.
The web attached to the balcony holds just as near the other ground and they spring back up in the air.
Spider-Man swings her to safety to the up floors of the crowds below.
They continue on, high above the streets of Manhattan as people stand and stare.
MJ, her arms wrapped tightly around Spider-Man, looks around in wonder and awe both at the experience and with him.
He swing past the twin spires of St. Patrick's Cathedral and land on the rocket Rockefeller Center roof garden nearby to the surprise of a canoodling couple.
He makes to go.
He somersaults off the roof.
MJ rushes over to see him swinging back and forth and on the streets.
MJ smiles fondly.
Later, she's on the phone to Harry.
Peter, who's listening, grins.
MJ hangs up on him.
Harry, a dressing on the side of his head, crosses to Peter.
Harry looks away and shifts uncomfortably.
Peter looks thoughtful.
At the Osborn home, Norman is pouring himself a drink from a decanter.
He takes a large gulp.
Hearing a noise, he turns.
He moves as if in a trance.
Normal looks all around the room uncertainly.
On a shelf, by the wood-paneled wall are reaching masks.
Norman stares at them.
Norman spins around.
He's looking into a mirror.
His reflection his talking to him.
Norman looks at his reflection.
The reflection chuckles.
Hoffman's in the office already.
A cigarette by Jameson threw out of the window is thrown back.
The Green Goblin burst in and grabs the editor by the throat.
From outside the windows.
Vapor seeps out from the back of the Green Goblin's gloves straight into the face of Spider-Man who's hanging upside down.
He goes limp and falls towards the ground.
The Green Goblin, on his glider, catches the unconscious figure and takes him to a rooftop.
He leaps on his glider.
The Green Goblin shoots off into the night.
Night time, MJ walks out of a door and tosses something in a bin.
Peter runs up.
Peter gulps.
She raises an eyebrow.
She smiles gently at him.
Lighting illuminates the buildings around them.
She runs across the Puddle Street road and turns a corner.
Peter, the wind ruffling his hair, sees two youths giving her the ones-over.
Peter makes him move as they start to follow her.
The rain falls.
MJ quickens her step as the two youths approach.
Peter is up on the roof changing out of his everyday clothes.
Two more youths join in the chase.
In the backstreet MJ is trapped by the gang of four.
One grabs her by the shoulder.
She lashes out her bag and feet.
One guy draws a switchblade.
Webs appear from nowhere.
The four assailants have dragged away from MJ.
Spider-Man, without his mask, is clinging to a wall.
He somersaults onto the ground.
He takes on the four men.
His strength overpowers them.
Two end up crashing into windows behind MJ.
Still in the shadows, Spider-Man drops the final assailant to the ground.
Then as MJ comes closer to him, he moves off down an alleyway.
When she reaches it, he's disappeared.
Then he slinks down a wall, head first, mask on.
She stares at her superhero.
She reaches her hands up to let under his chin, which is level with her face.
She slowly starts to peel the mask, revealing first his neck, and his chin, and finally, his lips.
Then she leans forward, cups his face with her hands and they kiss, a long, lingering kiss.
The rain is still falling around them.
She places her fingertips on the roll of the mask and tugs it back into place.
He shoots out a web and pulls himself up.
She has the broadest of grins as she stands in the pouring rain, looking up into the sky.
The next day is clear and bright, the sun shining over the skyscrapers of Manhattan.
Fire trucks surround a burning apartment building.
Flames are roaring out of the top floors.
Firemen are evacuating the building's occupants.
A woman runs to them.
Spider-Man is zooming along the streets, leaping from web to web way above the traffic.
Spider-Man swings from a lamp stand at in front of the burning building and leaps in through a window on the lowest of the floors, which is alight.
He disappears from the view of those on the ground.
A fireman, his face and outfit blackened, stands by the mother, whose hands are closed as if in prayer.
They all are calm.
Spider-Man reappears at the second explosion.
He lands on the sidewalk, baby in arms.
The mother pulls back the shawl.
A policeman races up.
The policeman scrutinizes Spider-Man.
Spider-Man hauls himself back up to the top of the building and bursts in through a window.
He looks around the blazing inferno.
Part of the ceiling caves in.
He sees a figure in the distance.
He reaches out for the figure, who spins round.
It's the Green Goblin.
One punch sends Spider-Man sprawling.
He throws an orange ball.
It explodes into several spinning boomerang type blades.
They head for Spider-Man, who leaps acrobatically to avoid them.
As he jumps, ducks and weaves, so the Goblin attacks with his gloved fists.
Spider-Man fights back and still has to deflect the rotating blades.
One cuts his left arm.
In a limber darting move, arching his back, Spider-Man avoids another blade.
He whips back up, smashes the Goblin in the face, pulls him back with a webbed thread and then volleys him with his left foot through a partition.
Using the explosion as cover, Spider-Man beats a hasty retreat.
Norman's eyes glaze on his way up to Harry's apartment.
Harry and Aunt May are tidying up and MJ has a sniff of a casserole.
They hear the elevator gate.
Aunt May opens the door.
Spider-Man lands outside on his room's window ledge.
Harry hears the sound.
Norman eyes up MJ.
Aunt may calls upstairs.
They're all gathered in the living room by the bottom of the stairs.
Aunt May starts to make her way up.
He whips off his mask.
He's nowhere to be seen as they all troop into his room.
Norman comes further in.
Peter's clinging to the ceiling.
Still in costume, he notices blood trickling down his arm, ready to drop.
The others leave Norman in Peter's room.
As he turns to walk out, the drop of blood falls to the floor.
Norman's enhanced hearing picks up the sound of the drop hitting the floor.
He looks around, spots the blood, then raises his eyes to the ceiling.
Peter has gone.
Norman screws up his eyes and heads for the open window.
Norman leans over the balcony and looks down and up.
Later, out of costume, Peter walks through the front door.
Norman is sitting at the head of the table and Peter opposite MJ and Harry.
Aunt May set an enormous turkey in front of Norman.
Norman's picking at the sweet potatoes.
Norman licks his fingers and looks malevolently at the white haired Aunt May.
He picks up the carving knife and begins to sharpen it, a sneer on his face.
Aunt May notices blood seeping through Peter's shirt.
Norman glares at him.
Norman is holding the carving knife, blade pointing at Peter.
He lays it down and rises from the table.
Harry races out after his father.
Everyone has heard the conversation through the open door.
MJ lowers her head.
Peter glances at her as a dejected Harry comes back into the room.
Norman's in his living room.
He talks to the Goblin mask.
Aunt May's in her bedroom.
The explosion rips out the wall.
The Green Goblin glides in.
Aunt May is lying on the floor, leaning against her bed.
Later, Peter rushes into the hospital.
He runs to her room.
Peter is pushed out of the room.
He leans against the corridor wall, deep in thought.
Peter's bright blue eyes twitch nervously.
He looks one way down the corridor, and then turns to look the other way.
Now he sits by his aunt's beside.
She's sedated.
The young man takes his aunt's hand in his and gently strokes it with his thumb.
On the bedside cabinet is a framed photograph of her, Uncle Ben, and Peter.
Peter studies it grimly.
He shifts his gaze back onto his aunt and swallow, before speaking.
The next day, MJ comes to visit.
There's flowers.
The young red-head looks down at the peaceful figure on the bed.
The two are sitting opposite each other.
He's staring straight into her eyes.
She smiles a little.
Peter averts his gaze, nods his head, then looks down at the floor.
Unknown to them, Aunt May's eyes are open.
She's overheard.
She smiles, then closes her eyes again.
MJ reaches out and gently takes hold of Peter's hand.
As she does so, the door opens.
Harry enters, clutching a bouquet of flowers.
MJ whips her hand out of Peter's.
Harry stares at them, a disappointed look on his face.
The three of them seem awkward.
That evening, Harry strides into the dark, arched Osborne living room.
Hearing voices, he heads for the stairs.
He climbs the grand staircase.
His father appears on the landing which runs around the room.
Harry spreads his arms wide.
Norman leans on the wood-carved rail.
A sullen Harry continues up the stairs.
Looking down at his son, Norman, shakes his head.
Harry looks impart and then sighs.
Harry looks quizzically at his father, who steps down to him, then wraps him in his arms.
Harry closes his eyes as tears well up in them.
Peter's head rests on his aunt's bed.
Peter looks coy.
A thoughtful Peter turns away.
He looks up in alarm.
He's at a pay phone in the hospital.
Peter's eyes widen.
MJ is unconscious.
A stiff breeze is ruffling her hair and nightclothes.
This rouses her.
She gets to her feet on a metal platform, high above the city lights.
She steps back to the edge.
MJ manages to retain her balance.
Way below her, the traffic streams across Queensboro Bridge.
MJ is on one of the towers of the steel structure.
The Green Goblin comes close.
He glides over the ducking MJ.
She watches the Goblin move towards a cable car full of children and some adults.
The Green Goblin shoots a missile and blows up the cable-car station.
Motor cars on the bridge collide.
From a rooftop nearby, Spider-Man sees the carnage.
A massive metal wheel flies into the air, a cable whips free, and the Roosevelt Island cable car starts to free-fall.
The Green Goblin catches hold of the cable and stabilizes the falling car.
Standing in the middle of a thick strand of web tied between two flagpoles, Spider-Man stretches the strand by walking down a building and then launches himself into the air.
Shooting out webs, he snakes his way along the steel girders.
He lands on a metal strut.
Above his head, the Goblin holds MJ in one hand, the cable-car cable in the other.
He lifts MJ up, and her slippers tumble down below.
He turns his head.
The cable car still swinging in the wind, held up only by the Goblin's strength.
Gablin releases both MJ and the cable at the same time.
In the large spider eyes on the mask, a reflection appears in each, in one MJ falling, and in the other the cable car full of screaming, frightened children.
Spider-Man runs along the girder, takes off and spins down to catch MJ, then under the span to ensnare the cable car in his web.
He attaches a network of webs to the bridge.
Inside the dangling cable car.
The web is struggling to hold MJ, Spider-Man and the car.
The Goblin sees a tugboat draw near.
Hearing the sound of the glider, Spider-Man and MJ look up to see the Goblin on his way towards them.
Part of the web gives way.
Everything drops feet.
MJ clambers over Spider-Man and starts to climb down the cable.
The Goblin flashes past Spider-Man, punching him.
Like a gymnast on rings, Spider-Man's arms are stretched wide, one attached to the web supporting them all, the hand of the other still grasping the cable tightly.
Another punch sends Spider-Man reeling and knocks the cable from his grasp.
He grabs the cable.
MJ slips off it but clasps hold of the rail running around the cable car roof.
The Green Goblin glides in for the kill as Spider-Man is lowering the cable car towards the barge.
A blade shoots out, but the Goblin is hit by debris.
Knocked off balance, the Goblin is kicked away by Spider-Man.
The crowd on the bridge continue to throw debris.
The cable car lands safely on the barge, MJ still clinging to it.
MJ looks up at her hero and sees the Goblin closing in again.
The Goblin throws a line around Spider-Man's waist and pulls him away behind the glider.
Spider-Man crashes through the wall of an old ruin.
He shoots out a web to steady himself.
He smashes through a pane of glass.
Then a pumpkin bomb bounces towards him.
The fireball throws Spider-Man backwards.
He's thrust through a brick wall and lands on the ground.
Half his mask is burnt off.
The Goblin reappears.
The Goblin punches Spider-Man in the chest and face, then kicks him and punches him again.
A punch sends Spider-Man high into the air and he lands heavily.
The Goblin flips up and punches him again.
Spider-Man shoots out a web and tries to pull himself clear.
The Goblin thwarts that.
Spider-Man shoots more threads.
He builds a large web, which slows down the Green Goblin, but can't hold him.
Spider-Man goes on the attack, but is beaten back.
A kick to the head and a drop kick to the chest sends Spider-Man reeling.
He crashes into a brick wall and collapses on the ground.
He raises his wrist, but the Goblin's boot comes down on it.
Spider-Man's eyes flare and he grits his teeth.
The Goblin lunges at Spider-Man with a multi-bladed spear.
Spider-Man stopped it in front of his face.
He pushes it back, then hurls the Goblin across the ruin.
The Goblin scrabbles around.
Webs wrap around the Goblin's ankles and Spider-Man yanks him down.
Two more webs pull a wall down on top of him.
Spider-Man steps back.
From beneath the pile of rubble, a hand appears.
Then the Goblin's head and torso.
He hauls himself unsteadily to his feet.
Then Spider-Man swoops down.
Spider-Man drags the villain through a trellis and smashes him against another wall.
Now it's Spider-Man's turn to rain blades on his opponent.
The Green Goblin falls to the ground.
The Green Goblin removes the hard mask with jutting jaw, revealing Norman Osborn.
Peter, Spider-Man, stares in disbelief.
He has pressed the remote on his glove.
The Goblin sneers.
The remote has triggered the glider.
With blades drawn, it targets Spider-Man.
He does a backward flip over it.
It heads for Norman.
The blades pierce through Norman, pinning him to the wall.
Norman leans on the glider, then looks up at Peter, whose face is clearly visible through the torn mask.
Norman slumps over the glider, his eyes staring wide.
On the ground beside him lies the mask of the Green Goblin.
Peter lowers his head.
Later, in the dark, he lays Norman, no longer in costume, down on the sofa in the Osborn mansion study.
As he does so, Harry, dressed in black, walks into the room.
Harry sees his father and the shadowy figure of Spider-Man.
Harry scrabbles in the desk and finds a gun.
When he looks up, Spider-Man has gone.
The net curtains billow in the wind.
The window is open.
On the day of Norman's funeral, after the interment, Harry is standing alone.
Peter, hands in pockets, walks slowly over to his friend.
Harry turns and nods acknowledgement.
Peter stares, transfixed at Harry.
Peter steps forward and puts one arm, then the other around Harry, as the two friends hug.
They part and Harry turns away.
Solemn, Peter watches Harry trudge down the path through the gravestones towards the waiting Rolls-Royce on the road.
The bare trees have cast their autumnal leaves.
Peter turns to see MJ and Aunt May.
Peter stands in front of his uncle's gravestone.
MJ comes to join him.
She hugs him.
They wrap around one another.
MJ breaks away.
They stand, facing each other.
She strokes his cheek with her gloved hand.
He stares intently at her.
Standing in the middle of the graveyard with tears in her windblown face, MJ pulls his head towards her and their lips meet in a long and passionate embrace.
The lingering kiss stops and they study each other's faces.
The tears well in MJ's eyes.
When she closes her lids, the tears roll down her cheeks.
Peter sadly turns from her and slowly walks away.
MJ stands by the gravestone, sobbing.
Suddenly, as if struck by a memory, she moves her hand up to her lips.
She turns around sharply and looks at the departing Peter.
The masked and costumed superhero swings once again above the streets of New York.
His back arching as he dives from one web to another, down low by the surging traffic and up high by the rooftops.
Sometimes using one hand, sometimes both, like a gymnast, he flies through the air.
He flips up and somersaults, landing on a rooftop flagpole by the fluttering stars and stripes.
Set against a moody blue sky with towering white and gold clouds, a woman in Grecian-style robes holds aloft a shining torch.
Pages of comic magazines.
A spider's web is behind the letters which break up and vanish from the screen.
Images of the principal actors.
Peter Parker and his new muscular body.
Then as the prototype Spider-Man and the wrestling green cage.
Peter not stopping the thief, then kneeling by his dying uncle.
The beginnings of the Spider-Man costume.
More titles.
Spider-Man stands over Norman Osborn as Harry walks into the room.
Peter Parker, at his uncle Ben's graveside.
Peter walks away from MJ in the graveyard.
Peter gazes at a poster of MJ, the face of parfumerie Emma Rose.
As a pizza boy.
Peter gazes blankly.
Traffic is at a standstill.
Peter, on his moped, weaves his way through cars and yellow cabs.
A taxi pulls out in front of Peter.
Stack on the back of a moped, there are Pizzas.
A taxi stops in front of Peter and he swings round in front of it.
He sees the lights change and a bus passes in front.
He looks up at the clock.
Another minute takes by.
Now, on foot, Peter runs into an alley, ripping off his crash helmet as he does so.
A guy watches the alley entrance.
Out swings Spider-Man with the pizza.
Soaring his way through the skyscrapers, the costumed character is far above land.
He spots two kids running onto the street.
Huge truck coming their way.
He tosses the pizzas and swings down to pluck kids away from truck.
He sets them gently on the ground.
A man steps out onto a balcony and turns to see the pizzas on the balustrade.
As the man on the balcony teases out a slice of pizza, Spider-Man swishes past, grabbing the pizzas.
He lands on a building nearby.
The man goes to eat the pizza slice as it's whipped from his hand by a web.
Inside the building Spider-Man landed on, a receptionist sits at a desk in a hallway with black-and-white checkered flooring.
She looks round on hearing the noise and sees a cupboard door opening.
From it emerges Peter, carrying the pizzas.
The brooms in the cupboard fall out behind him.
Chewing her gum intently she watches as he struggles to push the mops and brushes back inside.
With one final thrust, Peter pushes back the brooms and slams the door.
He picks up the pizza boxes, then notices something stuck to the top.
It's some spider's web.
The receptionist eyes him curiously as he pulls the stretchy, silky substance off and stuffs it in the back pocket of his jeans.
He strides up to the desk and lays the pizzas on it.
The gum-chewing, bored-looking receptionist looks at the clock.
Three minutes past two.
His face unflinching, Peter unties the two fasteners keeping the pizzas together, one after the other.
He glances up at the receptionist, then walks back towards the janitor's cupboard he emerged from.
The receptionist eyes Peter suspiciously as he turns to the elevators he just walked past.
He presses a button.
Doors open.
He steps into an elevator.
He presses another button, gives the receptionist a friendly smile and a wave.
The doors close.
Back at Joe's Pizza, with Mister Aziz.
Mister Aziz stares at the eager, bright-eyed youth, steps up to him and reaches for Peter's helmet.
He rips the Joe's Pizza sticker from it.
Later, at the Bugle.
He hands over the chitty.
Miss Brant chucks Peter's chin and strolls away.
Peter smiles self-consciously.
The opposing columnated University building, pathways in front of it.
Peter runs through the campus and collides with a student.
He bends to pick up his book.
One student stands on his books, the bags of others hit peter.
He rises.
Doctor Connors takes a few paces past Peter, stops, then turns.
The brow of the thin-faced Doctor Connors furrows as he walks away.
The right sleeve of his coat is empty.
Night, Peter on his moped, moves into the garden of a wooden, suburban hedge.
He enters the house.
Peter takes off his helmet, satchel and jacket.
Peter stares at Harry Osborn.
Harry watches MJ go.
Harry frowns at Peter, who stares back flatly.
When Peter doesn't respond, Harry rises and walks away.
He stands, hands on hips.
Harry looks at a framed photograph of his father with Peter.
Peter puts his hand on Harry's shoulder.
The lights go out.
Peter blows out the candles on his birthday cake.
Later that night, Aunt May is asleep at the table, letters and papers by her.
He walks around the table and takes hold of his aunt's hand.
Aunt May reaches into her purse.
Tears well in Peter's eyes.
Aunt May kisses Peter on the cheek and walks away.
Peter struggles to fight back the tears.
He takes the litter out into the backyard in a plastic bin bag.
He strides to the bottom of the garden, not noticing MJ sitting on the steps of the house next door.
MJ walks towards him.
Peter gazes at her.
She moves closer to him, leaning over the fence.
He shakes his head.
His eyes flit from hers to her mouth.
The two of them stand as if transfixed.
Peter starts to speak.
MJ stares at him expectantly.
Again, he shakes his head.
He lowers his eyes.
She keeps hers fixed on him.
He looks up again and tries to smile.
She moves her left hand to his head.
Her fingers caress his temple.
Her hand slides down his cheek.
His eyelids flicker and almost close.
MJ turns and walks slowly away.
Peter lowers his head and swallows.
His head droops.
With a smile on her face, she saunters away.
Peter enters his apartment building.
He climbs a dark stairway and reaches a landing.
A door opens behind Peter.
A man playing cards looks out at him.
He snatches it.
He screws up his face.
Mister Ditkovich's daughter, Ursula, drops a ladle and sets fire to the stove.
The door is shut in Peter's face.
Peter lets himself into his apartment.
He switches on the light in his single room home.
He rolls off the satchel strapped to his back, sits down on the bed, his face glum.
His back is to the opened window.
On the bedside cabinet, photos of Aunt May, Uncle Ben and MJ.
Beside them is a radio set, which he switches on.
The morning sun lights up the skyline of New York.
Mister Ditkovich barges past Peter and into the restroom.
He closes the door, then opens it.
Peter leans forward and shuts the door.
Harry and Peter enter a lab.
Harry leaves Peter with Doctor Octavius.
Peter looks around.
They're having tea.
The doctor nods.
Peter is in a laundromat, reading Longfellow.
He lays the volume down on top of a pile of other poetry books and goes to the washing machine.
He opens it.
As he stretches in to remove the laundry, he looks across at the only other person in the laundromat, who is paying him no attention.
Peter stuffs the Spider-Man costume in his bag, then checks his boxers.
The white is now stained with blue and red from the costume.
Ditto his once white socks.
Peter stands by the window of his apartment.
He lugs off his T-shirt, drops the shirt on the floor and opens the curtain door of his wardrobe.
Hanging on the rail, a Spider-Man outfit, and a suit, shirt and tie.
In front of the mirror, he fastens the tie.
He runs down the stairs.
He's in his boxers.
His daughter stares as he pulls up his trousers and walks into a room.
Cabs pull up outside the theater.
MJ's face is displayed prominently at the entrance.
As crowds walk into the foyer, and tickets are checked and stubs torn off, MJ is suiting with a fellow actress in makeup.
Half grinning, Peter picks up a bunch and hands over some money.
The florist taps him on the shoulder, takes the flowers and hands him back a single stem with three flowers on it.
Backstage.
Peter glides serenely along a street on his moped.
A convertible smashes into a chasing police car, which is drawn alongside, then heads straight for Peter.
Peter leaps in the air over the convertible, completes a backwards somersault and lands, poised.
The car chase is still on.
One of the guys in the convertible pumps a shotgun.
The leading police car spins.
The second hits it.
The third swerves to avoid it.
It catapults into the air and drops towards a group of bystanders.
It stops, suspended above them.
Cowering, they all look closely at the squad car seemingly hanging in midair.
It's caught in a web.
Spider-Man swings past.
Spider-Man slips between the cab and trailer of a truck as he pursues the convertible.
Spider-Man soars, dives and weaves to avoid the bullets being pumped directly at him.
He fires two web pulls.
He lands on the car's boot.
He ensnares the men's weapons in their hands and tosses them over an overhead light, the men still attached.
On stage.
MJ stares at Peter's empty seat.
Peter screeches up to the theater in the convertible.
Peter leaves the car, then enters the theater.
Peter bends down to tie his shoelace watched by the usher, then straightens up.
His tie is crooked.
The usher in a waistcoat and dicky bow points to his tie.
Peter straightens his necktie, then steps forward.
He produces the ticket.
The usher folds his arms.
Peter walks to the door, then turns back.
The usher gestures, locking his mouth.
Peter looks at his ticket and glares at him.
Peter sits on a stoop opposite the theater.
A nearby street musician plays.
Peter watches her, then closes his eyes and shakes his head incredulously.
He steps forward, watching expectantly.
MJ comes out through the stage door.
A girl comes out after her.
Peter smiles contentedly.
Peter's smile fades as he sees the guy kissing MJ.
Peter watches a police car fly past, followed by a few more.
His attention returns to MJ.
Then he looks down sadly and moves off.
MJ and her man walk off, arm-in-arm.
MJ looks around briefly as if expecting to see Peter, but there's nobody there.
Peter enters a steam-filled backstreet.
He breaks into a run, then tears open his shirt to reveal the Spider-Man costume.
He pulls on the red mask, leaps into the air, casting a web line to pull him self up.
Later, a group of squad cars weave their way down a wide city street.
Above them, spider-Man swings from building to building.
Hanging mid-swing, he flicks his wrists.
He falls stories, landing on some metal.
He hauls himself up from the now dented pipe.
He takes off his Spider-Man mask and examines his wrist.
He leaps over the edge of the building and peers down at the street below.
He tries to fire a web, but again nothing happents.
He looks down at the street way below and waddles slightly.
He pouts and frowns.
Later, a man with a dog is waiting for an elevator.
The doors open and the man is about to enter when he pauses, seeing a fully suited Spider-Man standing casually inside.
Looking Spidey up and down, the man steps into the elevator and presses a floor button.
Spider-Man looks down a little self-consciously.
The man nods understandingly.
The man puts his card back in his pocket.
Spider-Man looks away from the man, then bows his head and stares at the wall.
The man looks up at the floor display as it changes from to nine.
Spider-Man leans forward and presses a button.
Later, Peter traipses down a deserted sidewalk.
He passes a wall which has been plastered with MJ's perfume ads, showing her soft, pretty face.
He looks at the images briefly, then carries on going, a preoccupied look on his face.
He's dragging his broken moped along behind him.
Peter sits doodling in Doctor Connors' class.
He's drawn his face, half Peter Parker and half Spider-Man.
On a pay phone outside.
MJ comes home.
MJ looks peeved.
MJ gazes hopefully at the phone.
She turns away.
Peter slaps the phone, then shakes his head incredulously.
Talking into the receiver, he looks up and shakes his head.
He hangs up.
Guests have gathered in Doctor Octavius' lab.
Peter and Harry are amongst them.
Octavius pulls off a dust sheet to reveal a device with four long mechanical limbs.
He peels off his gray lab coat.
He steps onto a platform, then taps keys on a freestanding control panel.
The metal harness snaps into position around his waist.
A mechanical spine curls up onto his back.
A blue computer chip at the top of the synthetic spine glows, then a series of pins slide into his skin.
He grimaces.
His audience gasps.
Octavius concentrates hard and stares up at the ceiling.
The four metal limbs begin to move, rising up like snakes.
On the end of each arm is a pointed pincer which opens out.
Octavius reaches out his own arms.
The four mechanical limbs hover above his head.
Peter's eyes are wide.
Equipment units are wheeled aside.
The lights go out.
Across the room stands a machine with a base from which four curved pillars rise.
Octavius controls one of the mechanical arms.
The pincer retracts.
A much smaller pincer opens.
A tube rises from a panel.
The small pincer plucks a tiny sphere from inside it.
The small pincer releases the sphere, which floats in the air between the four pillars of the machine.
The sphere begins to spin.
Rosie approaches Octavius and smiles.
He smiles back and takes a pair of dark goggles from her.
He puts the high-tech goggles on.
He taps keys on a control panel.
Laser projectors mounted at the top and bottom of each curved pillar fire a slender yellowish beam through the tiny sphere.
The eight beams cause the sphere to glow and spin faster.
The sphere suddenly expands into a fiery ball resembling the Sun.
An old scientist to Harry.
The mechanical arms grasp onto an energy field which surrounds the glowing sphere.
Peter looks down and sees a paper clip lift up off the floor.
It shoots towards the fusion machine.
Air ducts on the ceiling swing towards the machine, as do the hanging lights.
Peter stares up, bathed in an orange glow.
Looking a little flustered, Octavius taps on a control panel.
Necklaces and other personal objects get sucked into the sphere.
Octavius peers around at his anxious-looking wife.
Peter moves away.
Harry looks around.
Metal panels are sucked off the walls.
An arc of white-hot energy blasts out of the sphere and cuts into the ceiling.
An equipment unit rolls towards Harry.
Spider-Man swings him to safety.
Spider-Man leaps onto the ceiling.
Octavius looks up.
Octavius swings a mechanical arm at Spider-Man, knocking him against the wall.
A small energy arc leaps out from the sun's sphere.
The windows implode.
Shards of glass fly towards Octavius' wife.
Her face reflected in one of them.
It heads straight for her eye.
Octavius sees her slump to the floor.
An arc of energy surges from the sphere and short-circuits the inhibitor chip.
Spider-Man leaps over to the far cables and tugs on them.
Sparks fly out.
Octavius' body stops shaking and he drops to the floor along with the mechanical arms.
The power cables come away and Spider-Man backflips onto the floor.
The sphere implodes, then bursts into a cloud of fiery particles before imploding again.
Darkness fills the land.
Emergency vehicles arrive at the scene.
Two singed scientists leave the building.
Harry trudges onto the street.
He wears an angry expression.
An Oscorp exec.
Lying on a stretcher trolley, Rosie's dead body is covered and wheeled over to an ambulance.
With not a scratch on him, Peter wanders out of the building.
At a hospital, medics are about to operate on an unconscious Octavius.
The doctor points to graphics on a screen.
Octavius' mechanical limbs are suspended from the ceiling.
The doctor starts up a circular saw.
He stops, hearing a sound, and looks up.
A pulley hanging from the ceiling swings.
Edgy, the doctor prepares to cut one of the limbs.
As he lowers the blade, he sees something reflected in another medic's goggles.
He spins around.
One of the limbs knocks him through a glass door.
The other three break free and start moving.
One grabs a woman by the leg.
A male medic is thrown across the operating room.
Another limb smashes through a table and clamps onto a man's face, then tosses him across the room.
A man is smashed into a lamp and electrocuted.
The nurse is dragged along the floor by the leg.
Octavius lies face down on the operating table, a bandage over his eyes.
The nurse's fingernails cut grooves in the floor.
A man is grabbed by the throat, then slammed against the table.
He spots a chainsaw.
Another medic is rammed into a wall.
The doctor by the chainsaw reaches for it, but is pushed to the floor.
The chainsaw pulls down weakly.
He tries in vain to cut into the limb that's pinning him to the wall.
The other three limbs sense danger and move towards him, viewing him with inbuilt cameras.
The mechanical limbs move in for the kill.
The chainsaw drops to the floor on the end of the man's limbed arm.
Octavius lifts his head.
Using its small pincer, one of the mechanical limbs gently pulls the bandage from his eyes.
Octavius opens his eyes and looks about him wearily.
His brow, alarm spreads over his face, and he kneels up on the operating table, the limbs rising with him.
He tips back his head.
Later, doors fly off the hinges.
A yellow cab speeds towards him, then skids to a halt.
Octavius cringes, then seems surprised when mechanical limbs lift the cab up and through to the air, it lands on another yellow taxi.
Viewed through the fractured windscreen of the cab, two of the limbs move up to Octavius' face.
Now, they detect a siren.
Octavius slips away.
Later, with the long mechanical limbs acting as legs, Octavius is carried onto a bridge tower.
The pincers spot a ramshackle pier and a derelict warehouse way below.
Octavius peers down at it.
A sunny day in his office, Jameson addresses bulky Robbie.
Jameson's surprised.
He shoos Peter away.
Octavius is in the warehouse on the dilapidated pier.
He stares down through gaping holes in the floor.
The mechanical limbs move slowly about him, like mythical serpents.
He looks at the reptilian limbs in desperation.
He stares forlornly into the water.
Two of the limbs open their pincers aggressively.
All four mechanical limbs hover, their pincers open.
His face strained, his eyes widen and he reaches behind his head.
He spins back around.
The pincers near his face and move, as if talking.
Octavius closes his eyes.
Troubled, he stares hard at the floor.
Then whirls around wearing a menacing.
A devious smile animates his lips, and the limbs walk in through the crumbling building.
A pincer threatens him.
The mechanical limbs lift him off the ground, then he opens his arms.
Peter were at a bank.
Aunt May kicks the bank clerk.
She holds up a newspaper cutting.
She studies the cutting.
The bank clerk smiles, stands and limps away.
On the other side of the banking hall octavious wearing a long coat and a triveil is standing in front of the steel vault door.
He tosses it across the hall.
Aunt May's mouth hangs open.
Peter runs off around the corner.
The bank clerk's beside her.
Octavius through the guards with his mechanical limbs.
One of his pincers bends around and takes of his hat.
It then starts to pick up bulging sacks of money from the vault and stuffs them into yellow bags.
One of the pincers detects something.
Octavius glances around.
Spider-Man flies in.
Octavius through bags at him.
Spider-Man swings up to the ceiling.
He catches a bag in a web, hitting Octavius who spins around and tosses some more.
Spider-Man lands on a wall with no web.
A bag of coins hits him.
A gold coin rolls over to the bank clerk, who's about to pocket it when Aunt May smacks him.
Octavius' metal limbs pick Spider-Man up.
The other two grab his head in their pincers and start squeezing.
Spider-Man fires a web.
He raises his arms at the desk and the display case head.
The limbs smash the desk.
The display case hits Octavius and propel him out of the bank onto a yellow cab.
He gets to his feet.
The limbs approach Spider-Man hurling him back into the bank.
Two police cars screech to a halt.
One of the mechanical limbs grabs Aunt May as cover.
Octavius lumbers off with Aunt May.
In an office, the girl on the phone lays down the receiver, then crosses to the window.
A limb pokes through the wall.
Octavius is hammering up the outside of the office building.
hree of the limbs doing the work, the fourth holding aunt May.
Spider man appears above him.
High up the building, Octavius drops aunt May.
A web come from Spider man catches her, and she springs back up.
Below her, Octavius crashes Spider-Man against the building.
Amazingly, Spider-Man still has a battle on his hand.
He punches free of Octavius and scoots up the building.
He's grabbed by one of the mechanical limbs.
Aunt May sees Spider-Man hauled down by Octavius.
The two men trade blows and spring off the building, falling down towards the ground.
One of the limbs secures a hold.
Spider-Man and Octavius crash through an office window.
Spider-Man pummels Octavius' face.
The limbs grab Spider-Man's head and toss him about.
Both men fall out of the window.
The material of Aunt May's brolly starts to tear.
She slips down on it.
Octavius tosses Spider-Man across the street into a window in the block opposite.
Aunt May slips further down the brolly.
Aunt May's feet land on a ledge.
She looks way down to the ground, then up at the face of the statue whose outstretched arms she'd hooked her brolly around.
She's lifted off the ledge.
Spider-Man sticks two webs to the window frames and stretches them back like a catapult.
As Spider-Man launches himself through the air, a pincer on one of the limbs becomes a pointed spear.
Octavius stretches out the spear-like limb towards Spider- Man.
Aunt May smacks Octavius on the head with her brolly.
Spider-Man grabs the limb.
Octavius releases Aunt May.
Spider-Man dives to her rescue.
He catches her, and they swoop and swing down the street.
The police fire at Octavius.
Bags of money in one pincer, he disappears around the corner of the building.
Spider-Man lands with Aunt May.
Spider-Man cocks his head, then leaps up on a web.
Girls flock to Aunt May.
Firing webs as he goes, the costumed hero sweeps through the skies from building to building across New York City.
The planetarium with its suspended glass curtain wall stands foot high.
Inside it, a sphere constructed of fabricated aluminum panels.
Peter is in the crowded planetarium.
He reaches for food.
Someone grabs the last canope from a waitress's tray.
A couple walks by.
He raises his camera.
Realizing the lens cap is still on, Peter removes it.
Of which time, the couple have walked away.
Harry's poured a drink.
Snatching the bottle, Harry knocks over his glass.
Peter walks up to him.
The two old friends stare defiantly at each other.
The Mayor glares.
All heads turn to look at the stairway down into the planetarium.
Captain Jameson is in uniform.
A young lady walks beside him arm-in-arm.
Everyone applauds, except Peter who sees the young lady is MJ in a black strapless dress, her hair tied up.
MJ stares at Peter and turns her head away.
He gazes, mesmerized.
Later, Peter makes his way out onto the balcony.
A server has a tray with one canope on it.
He reaches for it as someone else whisks it away.
Peter sees MJ alone.
He pauses, then walks up behind her.
MJ turns to face him.
Peter gulps.
His eyes fill up.
He watches forlornly as MJ strides away from him.
A waitress passes.
Peter grabs a cocktail glass.
He raises it to his lips to find that it's already been drunk.
He tips it upside down, and its little umbrella falls to the floor.
Back inside, Harry staggers up to him.
He slaps Peter's face a second time.
Peter's head swings to one side, then he turns to face Harry.
The two eyeball each other before Harry, tight-lipped, turns and walks away.
Peter lowers his head.
Her arms folded, MJ looks slightly flustered as the guests applaud.
She opens the palm of her hand towards John and moves up to the podium to join him, watched by a stunned Peter.
Peter raises the camera to his eye.
The lights of the Empire State Building form the backdrop for Spider-Man to swing slowly and gently through the city.
He stretches out his right hand and flexes his wrist.
He tries again and again, then falls.
He lands face down in a puddle.
Rises, pulls off the mask then flexes his wrists.
Still nothing happens.
He studies his fingertips, then looks up at the building to his right.
Standing alone in an alley, he moves to the building.
Places his hands on its surface and starts to climb.
He moves rapidly up the outside of the building, climbing with ease.
He starts to slip down, then comes to a halt.
Grasping for a handle, he slips back into the puddle.
He shakes his wet hands and leans back against a rubbish skip.
He notices a newspaper hanging over the side.
He grabs it and screws up his eyes to try to read the headline and focus on the picture.
In his room, he tosses it away.
Looking dejected, Peter sits on his bed.
He takes the back of his left hand up to his forehead and wipes his brow.
Octavius is at the desk in his lab.
The four mechanical limbs busying themselves around him.
One holds a cigar to his mouth.
Another lights it for him.
Octavius raises the dark glasses he's wearing from his eyes.
Puffs on the cigar, then blows the match.
Louise and MJ in a shoe store.
Peter's at his doctor being examined.
He points to his head.
The doctor nods, then heaves himself up onto the examination couch to sit beside Peter.
He nods again, and Peter reflects.
Peter sits in his room, his head against the wall.
Big flashes illuminate the darkness.
Peter's eyes are bright.
Sitting in the front seat of a car, the old man holds out his hand.
Peter looks at the hand, only inches from him.
He purses his lips.
His face screws up and his eyes flicker.
He turns his gaze on Uncle Ben who stares right back at him, a sad expression on his face.
In his room, Peter, his shadow thrown behind him onto the wall, stares at his own hand held out.
His back resting on a pillow, Peter stares into space.
His steely blue eyes bright and determined.
Outside in a dark alley with ominous clouds in the sky, Peter stands with his Spider-Man costume held out in front of him.
The wind ruffles his hair as he remains still for a moment.
He drops the costume, then walks down the alley and away from the dust bin into which he has consigned the last vestige of the super hero.
The sun shines as Peter with a jaunty gait strides through the city.
Peter trips on the sidewalk.
He awkwardly gets to his feet, reaches into his pocket and hauls out his spectacles.
He flicks them open, puts them on, and sets off a little wet.
At home, he tightens up a wheel on his moped and spins it.
The wheel rolls off the front forks and bounces out of the open window.
He strolls away from a hot dog man and stands at the curve.
Cop cars and vans and officers on foot race off in one direction.
Peter mancheses his hot dog and sets off in the other.
In his room, he studies.
Peter's hand goes up.
Peter grins proudly.
On the campus, doctor Connors races up to him.
Peter stops and smiles.
At the theater.
MJ is distracted when she sees Peter in the audience.
He grins inanely.
She smiles sweetly.
She ignores the prompt.
She turns to her costar.
MJ and Peter walk down the street side-by-side.
Peter, standing beside her, gazes at her earnestly.
Then they both resume walking.
He looks at her through doleful eyes, and she scrutinizes his features.
She turns away and crosses to a yellow cab.
She opens the door of the cab and, before getting in, turns to look at him once more.
Peter half smiles as MJ steps into the cab, shuts the door and watches as the cab drives away.
He slips on his spectacles.
At the Bugle, a headline is being composed.
Jameson's on the phone.
He pulls Spider-Man's mask from a bag.
Out comes the rest of the costume.
The disgruntled garbage man goes.
Robbie fondles the mask.
In his office, Jameson in the Spider-Man costume, minus the mask, leaps onto his desk a big cigar in his mouth.
He flexes his wrists as if shooting out webs.
His staff peer in through the slatted blinds.
Robbie shakes his head.
Two girls overtake him and giggle.
He smiles and walks on past an alleyway.
He sees two muggers attacking a dark-haired youth.
Peter turns his back away, leaving the muggers punching and kicking their fallen victim.
Peter watches as Aunt May lays flowers on Uncle Ben's grave.
Peter helps the white-haired elderly woman to her feet.
Aunt May's coat billows in the stiff breeze, which also blows falling leaves around the two of them.
Clutching her bag to her and, with one hand on her hat, she strides away.
Peter stands with his back to the departing figure.
Peter is sitting at the dining table.
Aunt May comes through from the kitchen holding a tea pot.
She strides up to the table and pours a cup of tea.
She sits down next to him at the table.
Peter, in blue shirt and tie and spectacles still on, lowers his eyes then looks at his aunt who sips her tea.
He nods his head.
She looks at him quizzically.
Aunt May stares intently at her nephew.
Tears well up in Peter's eyes.
He stretches out his hand to place it on hers.
Her eyes fixed on Peter's face, Aunt May removes her hand from under his.
He gazes at her through tearful eyes and looks away.
Aunt May gets to her feet.
She leans on the table for support, then about turns and runs up the stairs.
Peter sits at the table.
Octavius is in his lab.
Two of the limbs push a curved base in a replica fusion chamber in a space from which now four curved pillars rise.
Octavius eases the final girder securely it into position.
He steps back standing inside the fusion chamber which floats on the river below.
He looks up at the structure and the limb.
Suddenly, Octavius spins around.
The houseman enters as Harry drinks.
Bernard turns and walks out.
The lightning flashes making Harry's features in a pallid white.
Harry strides over to the open French windows which lead out onto a balcony.
He goes outside.
His glass in his hand.
He stops when he hears a distant thud.
He starts to look around the vast terrace-like balcony.
Lights on the pillars and small trees and bushes are dormant.
The balcony judders as the thuds seem to move closer.
Harry, his face grim and curious, steps forward towards the balustrade.
As he looks over the parapet, one of the mechanical limbs rears up and throws him off his feet.
Harry's glass flies in the air.
The pincer catches it.
A limb grabs Harry by the ankle.
Octavius smiles.
The limb hauls Harry back on to the balcony.
Aided by another limb, Harry is set down on the ground.
He stares at Octavius.
The four mighty limbs start to move away with Octavius carried in midair.
He turns to Harry.
Octavius scuttles like a spider out of Harry's sight.
Peter reads it at a newsstand.
He turns his head.
Peter runs towards a blazing apartment building.
He holds up the curb and reaches for the neck of his shirt as if to tear it open.
He stops, looks up at the fire, then steps back.
Peter hares across the street and races into the burning building.
Inside, he ignores the flames and runs up the stairs.
More timbers fall from behind and around him.
He takes stock.
He hears the screams and runs.
Reaching a locked door, he cups his hands to his mouth.
He charges with a shoulder.
He faces the door and raises his foot.
The door clatters to the floor, he enters the apartment.
Burning timbers fall from the ceiling.
Inside is the girl.
Chunk falls out of the landing.
His hand pressed on the girl's head.
And the girl in his other.
He hoists her onto the landing.
Her parents are outside.
Building, the girl on her knees helps Peter up onto firm footing.
He picks her up again, and they set off as more burning beams crashed the floor.
Her anguished parents here the crashes from inside, then see Peter emerge with their daughter.
He hands her over to her bemused parents and walks away.
The flames are now out and Peter stands in the road, an oxygen mask.
Two firemen cross.
Peter, a sombre expression on his face, turns away.
Peter is lost in thought.
He stands at his room window, the frames weather-worn and in need of paint.
A door opens behind him.
She steps outside.
Ursula, a tall scrawny girl with pigtails comes back in.
She goes back out again.
Later, she sits on the end of his bed and watches as he finishes eating.
He lays his fork on his plate.
She rises and collects it from him.
He hands her his empty glass, and they stand facing each other.
On her way out, she stops.
She hands him a note.
Ursula takes the plates and the glasses with her as she leaves.
Peter's attention is firmly on the note.
Aunt May's house.
Peter walks down the passageway to the back garden where Aunt May is packing.
She looks up, sees him and carries on with her work.
A smile on her face, she walks up to him.
She puts her arms round Peter and hugs him close.
Her eyes are closed.
He looks solemn, as she releases her hold and stares at him.
She nods and moves away.
Aunt May bends down, picks up a brown paper carrier bag and wipes a tear from her eye.
Peter looks round the boxes sitting in the back garden.
Peter looks bewildered.
The boy sulks.
Peter's eyes glaze over.
Peter stares through his dark-rimmed spectacles, then blinks.
A lone figure stands on the flat roof of a tall Manhattan building.
Down below, a street with four lanes of parked traffic.
Across from it, another flat-roofed building.
The figure is Peter, who strides with purpose away from the edge.
His face full of resolve, he stops.
Peter runs towards it, past the skylight jutting up, his face set in grim determination.
His jaw clenched, his teeth gritted.
He pumps his arms forward and back, as his pace increases and his stride lengthens.
Pigeons take to the air as Peter passes.
His eyes are focused on where he's going.
He flings both arms back, then thrusts them forward as he leaps off the roof.
His arms and legs flailing, he soars through the air.
A washing line breaks his fall.
He swings on it against the wall
Onto the roof of a car, rolls off it and hits another vehicle.
He lifts himself up.
He looks to see how far he's fallen, clutches his back and hobbles between the cars and out of the alley parking lot.
He leans on a parked car for support.
John's at MJ's.
MJ opens wedding acceptance cards.
He kisses her outstretched hand.
She studies him closely.
He's lying on the sofa.
He turns over and tips his head back on a cushion on the arm of the sofa.
MJ, on her knees, leans over him, kissing him full on the lips, her head pointing the opposite way from his.
He stretches out his left hand, and holds her head still.
MJ moves her head away and closes her mouth and her eyes.
MJ's lost in memories.
Her long hair trails down over his cheek, until MJ pulls back.
She opens her mouth in a silent sigh, and looks sad and reflective.
MJ is sitting in a cafe with a glass front, leaning her head on her hand.
Peter strolls in, and sits opposite her.
He looks down as she stares intently into his face.
Her eyes are fixed on him.
Her face grows sad.
He shakes his head.
MJ purses her lips.
Her eyes flit left and right.
His head shakes slightly, as he gazes sorrowfully into her blue eyes.
He looks at the table.
She lowers her head, then raises it.
Tears well in MJ's eyes.
Her lips quiver.
She leans forward.
Peter looks up, surprised.
She lays her hand on his.
Her engagement rings shines brightly.
Peter's eyes move up from her hand to her face.
She stretches further across the table.
He edges his mouth closer to hers, then stops.
Her eyes are closed.
Her lips offer to him.
His eyes widen as a car comes flying towards the window.
It crashes through.
Peter dives across the table at MJ, snatches her into his arms and flings her and him to the floor.
The car flies past their heads.
It lands upside down on its roof in the middle of the cafe.
Peter helps MJ to her feet.
They hear the thuds coming from outside.
The ground shakes.
Peter sees the three-pronged pincers at the end of a mechanical limb clomp towards the cafe, bearing up Otavious with him.
One of the limbs drags Peter to Octavius.
A limb removes Octavius' shades.
The mechanical limb clutching Peter throws him acroos the cafe but he slams against the back wall and falls to the floor, surrounded by debris.
Octavius smiles at MJ.
With MJ firmly in a grasp, Octavius uses the other three to stride away.
He, himself, is high in the hair, the four limbs protruding from the metal spine.
The three walking limbs stride over to a building, up its side.
Octavius, the limbs and ends disappear from view.
Peter bursts from under the rubble.
Peter stands still for a moment, his jaw firm, and then he runs out onto the street.
Through his glasses, the outlines of people are fuzzy.
He takes them off and can see perfectly.
He slips them back on.
He takes them off again and drops them to the ground.
A thick lens falls from the frame as it bounces.
Peter clinches his fist tightly, looks around.
Then, eyes blazing, he strides on.
At the Bugle, Robbie walks into the editor's office.
Jonah's eyes grow weary.
The Spider-Man costume hangs on the wall.
He turns his back.
Spider-Man swoops and soars once more through the streets of New York, making his way, speeding in a straight flying using the webs extending from his wrists as a means of propulsion to haul him along between the tall buildings.
As Spider-Man nears the Westside Tower, Octavius clamors up over its clock face.
Spider-man is on the flag pole at its peak.
A limb clatters into it.
The two engage in hand-to-hand fighting.
Two fists against six.
Spider-Man is thrown.
He grabs a clock hand.
A limb knocks it off.
Spider-Man falls.
He flicks web balls off the face, then catches the falling hand with another web.
He flings it up at Octavius.
It embeds itself in the wall next to Octavius.
Two limbs hold apart breaking it in half, then hurls both pieces at Spider-Man.
A limb punches Spider-Man down.
He attaches two webs over Otavious and pulls him
Both men descend.
Locked together, they crash onto the roof of a passing train.
The two bounce along the carriage roofs.
The train continues its way between the city buildings, as the two men rise and face eachother.
Octavious covers his face, Spider-Man fires more webs.
Spider-Man somersaults back, jumps to avoid the mechanical limbs and limbos under a bridge.
With two webs attached to two limbs Octavius manages to catapult Spider-Man towards a covered walkway.
Landing on Octavius and knocks him off the roof.
Octavius uses one of the limbs to thrust Spider-Man into the train.
He crashes through a door, stops at the one opposite, then spins around two poles.
He tangles as Octavious who struggles through and climbs up to the roof.
Spider-Man turns to see why.
He presses himself to the side of the train to avoid an oncoming one.
While it passes he cambers out of the roof.
Spider-Man spots a limb moving under the train.
He crawls down.
The passengers find Spider-Man at one window and Octavius at the one opposite.
Octavius punches Spider-Man who falls down onto the street below.
Quick webs grab him out of the way of cars and up into the air.
He swings along beside the elevated track, then bounds over high buildings and flings himself down.
He shoots web at Octavius and lands on him.
Octavius gets the upper hand, clutching Spider-Man with two of his long metal limbs.
He smashes Spider-Man into a train window.
He flails Spider-Man, who then manages to stick his feet to the side of the train.
Octavius holds him tightly in his arms and his head smashes through signs on the side of the track.
A train is coming the other way.
Octavius lets go, and the train hits Spider-Man.
Swinging gracefully with long of web.
Seeing him come, Octaviuos pulls two passengers from the train and holds them up.
He tosses a woman at Spider-Man who swoops down, catches her then deposits her into a web safety net.
Next, Octavius throws the man he's holding.
Again, Spider-Man sweeps the passenger up before he hits the track, and then places him in a web mat.
He punches the driver.
As Spider-Man lands behind Octavius, a limb pushes a lever.
The train picks up speed, sending the passengers whining.
Octavius tosses the lever to Spider-Man.
Octavius leaps off the train.
Spider-Man heads for the front.
A further explosion burns the mask which Spider-Man peels off.
Blinks to clear his eyes and realizes the train is hurdling through the city towards the end of the line.
The unmasked Spider-Man leaps down onto the track.
Raises himself against the train and uses his feet to shove against the sleepers as an attempt to decelerate.
Spider-Man jumps back onto the train, clutching his right knee as the train continues its relentless surge through the city.
Spider-Man leaps anxiously from side to side, then shoots webs right and left.
The two webs attach to buildings either side of the track, and Spider-Man takes the string.
The web breaks and Spider-Man falls forward.
As the train hurdles towards the river, a desperate looking Spider-Man fires webs at buildings.
A block of web shoots out.
Once again, Spider-Man out front takes the strain.
It rips Spider-Man's costume in several places, and battles the front of the train as the costume tears away his arms as his hands holds the webs uses them to restrain the train forward thrust.
Spider-Man's features are contorted as some of the webs start to break.
The train approaches the buffers.
It crashes through them and careens forward to the very end.
The first carriage teeters over the edge.
Spider-Man stands as if glued to the front of the train.
He continues to hold the webs attached to the buildings behind them.
The train grinds to a halt.
Spider-Man's eyes close.
He releases the web and slumps forward.
Hands reach out to prevent him from falling.
The passengers lift the unconscious, unmasked Spider-Man into the carriage.
His head falling back, the costumed figure is passed along the carriage over people's heads.
Willing hands reaching out to support him, until he reaches the center of the carriage, where he's gently lowered to the floor.
His face visible, the passengers stare at him.
The kid's eyes open and his gloved hands touch his face.
A worried look creeps into his eyes as he realizes he has no mask.
He sits up as a passenger crouches down.
The passenger looks round and two boys step forward.
The younger of the two stretches out his hand.
In it, Spider-Man's mask.
Peter takes it.
Through tear-filled eyes, Peter gazes at the two boys standing in front of him.
Then lowers his head, and slips on the mask to become Spider-Man once more.
Spider-Man sits up straight.
Then, struggling to rise, is helped to his feet by more willing hands.
These same hands steady him.
The door behind Spider-Man clatters in.
Octavius climbs on board.
Spider-Man turns to face him.
A passenger steps forward.
The first man gulps.
Others step between Spider-Man and Octavius.
He simply smiles.
Using two of the limbs, he sweeps them aside, leaving a clear route to Spider-Man.
Spider-Man indicates to those around him with a raised palm and a nod of the head, and staggers forward.
A punch from a mechanical limb sends Spider-Man to the floor where he lies helpless.
An electric storm hovers over the Osborn home.
Inside, Harry drinks.
He turns to see Octavius holding Spider-Man above his head.
Harry points to the couch, where he saw Spider-Man stand over his dead father.
Octavius lays the bound figure down.
Looking scared, Harry hauls back a hinged portrait, dials a combination and opens the safe behind it.
Inside is a huge orb.
A limb bundles Harry out of the way.
Octavius strides up to the safe, removes his dark specs and stares at the tritium.
Harry fixes his eyes on Spider-Man.
He spins round.
Octavius has taken the tritium sphere, and leaves via the balcony.
Harry, a dark and brooding look on his face, picks up a heavy ornamental dagger from the desk beside him.
He holds the dagger to his chest and moves towards the unconscious Spider-Man, lying on his back on the couch.
His arms and hands bound in front of him.
He raises the dagger as Spider-Man stares.
He hauls off the mask, then recoils.
He drops the dagger.
Peter flexes and breaks the bonds.
He gets to his feet and approaches Harry.
Harry shakes his head.
There are tears in the seated Harry's eyes as he stares up at Peter.
In the reconstructed lab, down by the pier, Octavius stands in the fusion chamber, studying the tritium.
MJ, in chains, is tied to a pillar.
Octavius lowers his dark glasses and taps on a keyboard.
In the fusion chamber, beams of light appear.
The tritium glows brightly, illuminating the way for Spider -Man to creep across a beam.
Sensing something, Octavius grins.
Spider-Man stops above MJ.
MJ looks up, smiles and her smile fades when she turns to face Octavius.
A limb punches into the pillar.
Spider-Man climbs away.
Spider-Man jumps over Octavius and his limbs.
But they catch him and fling him up through the ceiling, and out into the night sky.
Spider-Man shoots a web onto the building, and swings back in through a huge oil window, landing on Octavius.
They crash through the floorboards into the water below and trade blows.
The tritium sphere begins to attract metals to it.
Including MJ's chains.
She hangs on the air, the chains on her leg drawn to the sphere.
The pillar to which she's tied buckles and the ropes become free.
MJ is pulled towards the sphere.
Spider-Man attaches a web to the rope and struggles to pull MJ back from the glowing tritium.
The chains on her legs break free and she catapults back to Spider-Man.
Octavius is back on the rampage.
He tosses Spider-Man against a metal beam.
He crashes to the floor, and MJ watches as rubble falls on top of him.
Octavius strides over, and one of the limbs lifts Spider- Man and suspends him in mid-air.
MJ picks up a piece of timber, sneaks up on Octavius and is about to hit him when she's punched away.
One pincer flicks out a blade.
Two webs lift a power cable as a shield.
The points of the pincer pierces the cable, and an enormous surge of electricity shoots up the limb to Octavius.
Spider-Man struggles to pull out more cables.
He succeeds, and both men are hurled through the air.
Spider-Man sees the severed cables, but the sphere keeps drawing metal objects to it.
He stands before it, hands apart.
More and more pieces of the structure of the lab are being sucked into the glowing sphere.
Beyond the lab and on the streets of New York, lamp posts, taxis and cars are all drawn towards the building and the tritium.
Octavius, sitting in the water, regains consciousness.
Spider-Man hears a water-logged limb, and runs over to Octavius.
Octavius look puzzled.
Spider-Man removes his mask.
Octavius watches as more metal is pulled into the sphere.
A submerged limb rises and Octavius' face changes.
A limb places its pincer round Peter's neck.
Octavius nods.
Their pincers closed, the tips of the limbs look like serpents' heads.
Octavius' dark eyes glean.
He blinks, then raises an eyebrow.
More debris is sucked in.
The limbs watch Octavius.
They move threateningly towards his face.
The pincer round Peter's neck loosens off.
A limb stops him.
The unmasked Spider-Man watches as the four limbs raise Octavius aloft and carry him, as they lumber towards the golden orb floating in the fusion chamber.
When they're almost upon it, the limbs stop.
Octavius turns, his face grim and somber.
The two men stare long and hard at each other.
Octavius about-turns and bounds towards the sphere.
Spider-Man, still without the mask, spins round to see the incredulous look on MJ's face as she recognizes him.
Her face breaks into a smile.
Peter watches her fondly, then spots beams and a girder toppling.
As the whole side of the building crashes down towards her in one, he sprints to hold it up.
MJ is lying on the floor with him standing above her.
He looks down, intensely.
He bends under its weight.
Octavius, meanwhile, is under the fusion chamber, looking up at the sphere.
He uses the limbs to remove the support girders.
The chamber and the lab start to sink.
Peter struggles to hold up the side wall.
He nods.
The chamber crashes down into the river beneath it, taking the sphere and Octavius with it.
Peter exerts all his strength and throws the side wall after it.
He reaches down to MJ.
He removes a wooden beam trapping her.
They turn to see a revolving mass of metal speed towards them.
Holding MJ in his arms, he leaps up and uses a web to carry them away from the sinking laboratory.
Underwater, the body of Octavius, the four limbs still attached to him, floats downwards, as does the sphere.
The entire lab sinks below the surface of the river.
High on a crane, Spider-Man has woven a web over which he crawls to MJ.
He lies beside her way above the river, the lights of the city twinkling far below them.
She looks earnestly at him.
He stares at her.
She screws up her face and fights back tears.
Down below, a convoy of squad cars speeds towards the waterside.
Up on the web attached to the crane, MJ turns to face Spider-Man once more.
He half-smiles.
Later, he eases her down towards the ground with an ever- lengthening string of web emanating from his wrist.
As she glides elegantly down from on high, the convoy of cars draws closer to her, their lights flashing.
The lead car slues to its left and stops.
The passenger door opens and out steps John, who looks up at the descending MJ.
As she lands on the bridge of a boat, John races towards her.
She turns on hearing him approach.
John leaps from the pier onto the boat, then clambers upstairs as MJ descends towards him.
Meeting in the middle, they hug tightly.
As John nuzzles her neck, MJ looks across and up to the crane.
A distant figure squats there in true Spider-Man pose.
Peter slips on the mask.
He looks at the city, then round to MJ, before leaping into the night sky carried by a web.
Tears trickle down MJ's face as she rests her head on John's shoulder.
Harry sits alone in the apartment, fondling the blade of the dagger with which he'd intended to kill Spider-Man.
Hearing a noise, Harry gets to his feet, the dagger in his right hand.
He takes a few paces forward and listens.
A door opposite him swings open.
Harry looks anxiously around and stares up at the balcony surrounding the room.
He turns to the full-length mirror.
He stares at his late father.
Harry shakes his head.
Harry flings the dagger at the mirror.
It crashes through his father's reflection to reveal a room beyond.
Stupefied, Harry moves to the mirror doorway.
Avoiding the jagged pieces of broken mirror, Harry slides through into a brick chamber.
There are cobwebs, which he brushes aside.
He strides through, then turns, catching sight of something out of the corner of his eye.
The mask of the Green Goblin.
Harry crashes into a set of shelves filled with spherical bombs.
There are row upon row of the weapons his father once used.
Harry catches sight of a cylindrical vial containing a phosphorescent green liquid.
He picks it up, examines it, then marches into another section of the secret chamber.
He spies the glider the Green Goblin used.
A bright day.
The bells of an imposing stone church peal as people run across the street towards it.
In a dressing room, Mrs. Watson, in a mauve satin outfit with a wide-brimmed hat, is attending a stony-faced MJ, who's wearing a white off-the-shoulder dress with short layered sleeves.
Mrs. Watson hands MJ a posey-style bouquet of white flowers and steps back to admire the bride.
The church doors open, and the guests in attendance rise and face the back.
Among them is Harry, formally attired, as is John, who stands at the altar.
The church is decorated with white flowers.
As everyone waits, John's father stretches out to look up the aisle.
A young woman with long hair and a dark dress runs in carrying a note.
She races up to the altar and proffers John the note.
He takes it from her, stares at her, then opens and reads its contents.
His face is solemn.
His father.
Mrs. Jameson stares at her husband.
Out in the sunshine, MJ, still in her wedding dress, runs through a garden past a fountain, smiling broadly, her hair beginning to fall loose.
Peter is in his darkened room, sitting on his bed lost in thought.
He's unaware that MJ is standing in the open doorway.
He turns, as if sensing her presence.
He rises and faces her across the room.
She smiles warmly.
Peter, his arms at his side, saunters almost awkwardly towards her.
He stops a few feet from her.
She reaches out her hand and places it on his cheek, stroking it with her thumb.
Peter cannot take his eyes off her.
She lowers her hand.
He leans in towards her and they embrace.
Hearing the sirens, he turns to the window.
MJ looks at him and shrugs her shoulders.
Gazing at her, Peter grins, then about-turns.
MJ runs to the open window.
She sees Spider-Man swooping, swinging, diving and soaring his way across the city.
He swerves past police helicopters and soars over fire engines as they tear through the streets.
The sheer athleticism of his movement keeps him ahead of the choppers as he leads them on.
Back at the window, MJ leans her head against the rotting frame.
A burst of light reveals a woman dressed in a white classical robe with a blue still draped over her arm standing on top of a shallow pyramid of steps holding a blazing torch high in her right hand.
Pages from a superhero comic book flick rapidly down the screen.
A spinning war vortex of blue light becomes a silver blue spider's web which scatters the words the opening credits.
More splinted images reveal earlier moments in the story.
A spider biting Peter Parker.
Peter's look of disbelief at his changing physique in a mirror watched by Uncle Ben and Aunt May.
Peter having fun with red headed Mary Jane and crawling up a wall like a spider.
Uncle Ben's wise, kindly face.
Spider-Man in his skintight red and blue webbed suit swings lively from thread to thread like a trapeze artist.
More credits appear and blow away as if made of sand.
A tangle of sinister black, sticky, tendrils crawl across everything in their path.
On a street, Peter Parker rips open his shirt to reveal the Spider-Man suit beneath.
Mary Jane in a long white dress looks reproachfully at Peter in the final fractured image.
The broken mirror pieces slot together, becoming the blue sky above New York City.
Spider-Man swings through the air, high above the city streets.
Peter rides his small moped.
A student aims a peashooter at Peter's neck.
A blonde hottie.
Gwen Stacy smiles at Peter.
Another student shines a light in Peter's face.
Peter steps up to the ticket window.
He makes his way to his seat.
As he sits down in the center of the front row a couple of large men sit on either side of him.
The lights go down.
The curtains open, revealing a starry backdrop.
Mary Jane descends a staircase wearing a glamorous, long, white dress.
Peter grins proudly and mouths the lyrics.
In a balcony seat to the side of the auditorium, dark haired Harry Osborne is watching Mary Jane through opera glasses.
He lowers the glasses, then his gaze settles on Peter sitting below him in the stalls.
Peter, lost in Mary Jane's performance, is totally unaware of Harry's malevolent stare.
Following a couple of young women out of the theater, Peter grins with pleasure.
He spots someone up ahead.
Harry slowly turns to face him.
Harry gets into the back of his chauffeur driven limo and is driven away, leaving Peter standing helplessly on the pavement.
In Mary Jane's dressing room.
Mary Jane smiles warmly.
Peter beams happily.
In the Goblin Lair at the Osborne mansion several incarnations of the demonic Green Goblin mask are displayed on stands along with a number of high tech weapons and futuristic flying equipment.
A screen shows a scan of a human body.
Next to it, a high tech hoverboard.
The door of a glass chamber slides open and green smoke pours out.
Harry, wearing just a pair of shorts, steps out of the chamber.
He takes a deep breath and smirks.
In a dark, peaceful forest, Peter and Mary Jane, lying on a huge hammock-like web on their backs, are watching for shooting stars.
Mary Jane shuts her eyes very tightly, and a faint smile falls across her face.
She smiles, and they kiss tenderly.
A fiery meteor plummets from the sky and smacks down in the forest.
Mary Jane and Peter, wrapped in each other's arms, are oblivious to it.
The glowing orange meteor embedded in the ground cracks open.
Black tendrils, like living vines, spring out of it and stretch across the ground.
Peter, smiling happily, slides down a thread of webbing with Mary Jane, unaware of the tendrils crawling up a nearby ridge like a huge black spider.
Peter wraps his moped.
With Mary Jane sitting on the pillion seat, it starts to move off.
The strange black substance crawls speedily up behind and attaches itself to the rear number plate, as the moped rides off down the woodland track.
At night, a train rumbles across a bridge in the heart of Brooklyn.
Close by, a burly fair-haired man in an orange jumpsuit runs down a dark street.
A police car with a search lamp mounted by the passenger window turns onto the street behind him and drives down the road at a walking pace.
The man, Flint Marko, hides in the shadows and watches nervously as the squad car cruises past.
Flint grabs the bottom rungs of a metal ladder mounted on a wall.
He holds himself up and climbs the ladder to a fire escape outside a bedroom window.
Gently, he opens the window and climbs into the dark bedroom.
He looks down at a little girl of about years old asleep in bed.
She has a tube connected to her nose.
Flint sits down on the window sill as he gazes at her intently.
He reaches into his jumpsuit and takes out a handful of letters addressed to Penny Marko.
Flint reaches over and gently slides the letters underneath Penny's pillow.
He pulls open in a drawer and takes out a green-and-black- striped T-shirt.
In the dark kitchen, he breaks some bread in half.
He turns sharply as the light comes on and looks at a blond woman in her with her arms folded, wearing a disenchanted expression.
They both turn to the door.
Penny, who's overheard, comes in.
Flint walks over to her, kneels down in front of her, and gently takes her arm.
The bronwhead girl smiles, holds out her hand, and places a locket in Flint's huge palm.
He clenches his fist around it.
Red flashing light spills into the room and Flint strides over to the window.
He climbs out onto the fire escape.
Emma, Penny's mother, watches him go with a warn, cynical expression.
Peter is riding along a quiet street in the dark.
He parks out outside Aunt May's apartment,
Aunt May looks down, her eyes glistening with tears, and sweeps back a lock of her white hair.
She takes off her ring.
Peter takes the ring and gazes gratefully at his aunt, who smiles back at him, warmly.
He leans forward, and they hug, holding each other in a warm embrace.
After dark, Peter, wearing a dopey smile, rides along a city street.
A marked figure, in dark green, swoops down on a hoverboard and carries him up on the rooftops.
The masked attacker headbutts Peter and clamps a hand across his mouth.
Jagged blades spring from his forearms, and he slashes at Peter's stomach.
Peter jumps free of the hoverboard and shoots a web thread to the top of a skyscraper.
Swinging from the thread, he shoots webbing balls.
He ducks to avoid them.
He slices through Peter's thread.
Peter falls, and his dark green mystery attacker smashes him into a wall high above the ground.
Stuck in the wall, Peter looks up in a daze, as the figure in dark green hovers down towards him and slides his visor back.
Peter dodges a huge punch.
Harry prices out the section of wall Peter is clinging to.
Peter hangs on as it plummets towards the street below, but Harry swoops down after him, smashing the chunk of wall into fragments.
Peter swings away on a thread, but Harry flies at him, thumping him into the air like a ball on elastic.
Peter falls.
Harry grabs him, dragging and thumping him against the high walls as he flies, then hurling him through a corner of his window.
As Peter floats out of the other shattered window, he sees Aunt May's ring spinning through the air in front of him.
He then tries to snatch at it.
He grabs him from behind.
Both men balance on the narrow, sweeping hoverboard, the Sky Stick, as they fight.
Peter throws Harry off the Sky Stick and fires a couple of web threads, using them to catapult himself down after the falling ring.
The Sky Stick automatically zooms down to collect the falling Harry.
Peter swings down and is just grabbing the ring when Harry strikes him again, sending him sprawling onto a rooftop.
Peter opens his fist and looks down at the ring nestled in his palm, then turns and runs as Harry swoops down.
Harry banks around and sees Peter swinging between the buildings.
He zooms down after Peter, who swings into a narrow gap between the tall buildings, propelling himself along from thread to thread.
Harry turns the Sky Stick side on so he can fly along the narrow gap, dodging fire escapes and air con units as he air boards after Peter.
Harry pulls a glowing green sword from a scabbard on his back and slashes wildly at Peter, who swerves out of the way.
Harry soars above Peter, then plummets down to stab him but misses.
Harry hurls a small, golden pumpkin bomb at Peter.
Opens up in mid-air into a kind of flying metallic bat.
Harry throws more bombs at Peter.
They slash at Peter who desperately tries to swing out of their way.
He jumps off a pipe and swings back the way he came, just missing Harry.
The winged bombs surge after Peter and Harry gets caught in the swarm.
One of them embeds its wing in his shoulder.
He yanks it out, zooms upwards into the air, and swoops on after Peter.
Peter swings backwards, shooting webbing at the bombs and disabling them.
One of them, in a thread, and swings it back at Harry.
Harry flies through the explosion, shielding his eyes.
He hits the line of thread stretched out in front of him and bounces off a pipe and a wall, tumbling towards an alleyway below.
Peter, his eyes widening with alarm, swings down towards him.
Harry lies motionless on the ground.
He hurries over to his unconscious old friend.
Peter crouches down and holds his ear to Harry's mouth.
He yanks open Harry's dark green jacket and starts pumping his chest.
He listens again for signs of life.
He carries his friend to an emergency room.
Peter watches through a window as a crash team try to revive Harry.
A detective hands a file to tall, thin faced Captain Stacy.
A police dog handler blows a whistle and points.
Flint sprints across waste ground with armed officers running behind him.
As he reaches a wire mesh fence an Alsatian lunges at him.
He wrestles the dog off and punches it away.
Flint climbs.
Flint runs on and suddenly falls into a huge pit.
Flint tumbles down a concrete wall and lands heavily on a pile of sand in the bottom of the pit.
Slowly, he hauls himself to his feet and looks desperately from side to side.
He's caught in a dazzling beam of light.
Above the pit, three glowing capacitors begin to rotate like a merry-go-round.
Flint looks up nervously as the capacitors descent towards him and spin around him.
They kick up a sandstorm with Flint trapped in the middle.
He tries to run off but one of the capacitors hits him, throwing him back onto the sand.
The air is thick with sand as he gets to his feet, trying to shield his face.
Tiny granules of high velocity sand fly into his pores and shatter into fragments, fusing with his own molecules, giving his internal structure a sand-like appearance.
Flint's hand becomes sand and his fingers blow away in a fierce wind.
His entire body turns to sand and is eaten away by the wind until he completely disintegrates.
The cops arrive at the edge of the pit and look down to find the capacitors slowing down and Flint nowhere to be seen.
Peter sits alone in a hospital corridor, staring blankly at the paper cup in his hand.
He looks up and hurriedly stands as a doctor approaches.
The dark haired, bearded doctor goes, leaving Peter looking pensive.
With a tentative step, he passes the window of a private room and looks inside.
Harry is lying in bed with a bandage wrapped around his head.
He turns to face the doorway and smiles as Peter steps inside.
Mary Jane comes in.
Mary Jane and Peter step into the corridor.
Peter looks relieved.
In the room, the nurse smiles at Harry.
Large rocks roll and clink against each other.
Seen from further away, the rocks look more like gravel, and from even further away the gravel reveals itself as millions of grains of sand which sweep along the floor of the pit like waves on a beach.
The sand forms a curving shape, almost like a human body.
The undulating shape rises up as though to stand, then slumps down again.
The shape reforms and slowly rises in the form of a human torso from the waist up.
It's Flint, now transformed into Sandman.
Sandman raises his arms and examines his bulky, paw-like hands.
He looks down at his body of sand, then holds his hands to his large, round head.
Sandman looks at the mound of sand next to him and spots the locket Penny gave him lying nearby.
He reaches out to pick up the locket but the loose sand of his hand just crumbles around it.
He reaches out again and his hand becomes more human, with slim, mobile fingers.
He picks up the locket between his finger and thumb, then drops it into his palm.
The locket falls open, revealing Penny's picture inside.
Sandman's hollow eyes look melancholy as they gaze down at the picture.
He clenches the locket in his fist and hauls himself up from the sand like a man climbing out of a swamp.
He stumbles as he finds his footing, then slowly steps forward, gradually becoming more human until he looks exactly as he did before the change, right down to his brown hair, green and black striped t-shirt, and beige chinos.
He smiles and looks at the ring.
Peter slips the ring into the pocket of his jeans and opens the door to Mary Jane.
She holds up a newspaper.
He gives her a warm, guarded smile.
She sits down.
Peter smiles feebly.
She nods, sadly.
Mary Jane looks down, dejectedly.
Peter in his Spider-Man suit gives her a little smile before putting on his head mask and leaping out of the window.
Mary Jane stands up, gathers her bag, scarf, and newspaper, and goes for the door.
Across the room, the black spider-like tendril crawls across a cabinet behind her, but freezes when she looks around.
She leaves the apartment and the slimy, black mass drops to the floor.
On a city street, two cops look up to the sky.
A huge, towering jib crane swings around as its driver struggles with the controls.
Gwen's part of a photo shoot in an office.
The photographer checks his shot.
Gwen and the other two models turn to the window as an enormous steel girder hanging from a chain swings towards them.
They throw themselves to the floor as the girder smashes through the window.
It rips out the supports along one corner of the building.
A desk and other debris plummet to the ground.
Captain Stacy arrives on the scene.
In the devastate office, Gwen helps another mortal up.
The huge yellow jeep of the train swings back towards the office and smashes out the supports beneath it.
The office floor gets way in the desks.
Another furniture tip out through the smashed windows.
Gwen slides down the tilting floor and just manages to hang onto a telephone cable.
The cable snaps but she clings onto the very edge of the floor.
A blonde-head young guy runs up behind Captain Stacy and starts taking photos.
Stacy grabs the guy's camera and looks up at his daughter through the telephoto lens.
Gwen's eyes widened in horror as the desk slides towards her.
She releases a grip on the floor but manages to grab onto a long metal rail just below.
As Spider-Man approaches swinging from building to building, the metal rail falls loose from the wall and buckles, swinging Gwen out above the streets hundreds of feet below.
As Spider-Man swings and leaps towards the skyscraper, the crane's give rips out through the building, sending huge chunks of metal towards him.
Dodging the debris, Spider-Man just manages to catch Gwen, saving her from being crushed by two clashing slabs of concrete.
Spider-Man swings down to the pavement with Gwen in his arms.
Gwen hugs her dad.
As Spider-Man swings away, Gwen gazes after him.
In his office at the Daily Bugle, J. Jonah Jameson's in a meeting with a marketing guy.
The marketing guy slaps various slogans onto a whiteboard then smiles cockily at the grouchy newspaper editor.
Jameson calms down and speaks into an intercom.
Jameson looks through the window at his assistant and points to one of a dozen pills bottles.
She nodds.
He opens it.
He forces a calm face and presses the intercom.
He smiles graciously at the marketing guy.
Brock slips into Jameson's office.
Puffing on a cigar, Jameson waves Betty away dismissively.
In Times Square, a billboard displays the letters NY followed by a heart and a picture of Spider-Man.
A silver-head man comes up alongside him.
Peter ponders.
With a friendly smile, the man goes.
Later, Harry's doddery old man servant, Bernard, embraces his young master.
Peter hands Harry an old basketball.
Peter steals the ball of Harry and bounces it back to him in the lavishly-furnished hallway.
Grabbing the ball of Harry, Peter turns into Norman's study and stares the chaise long and remembers laying Norman's dead body on it.
Harry looks at his father's portrait.
Peter tosses the ball to Harry and knocks a vase over.
Harry nimbly catches the vase in one hand and the ball in the other.
Peter looks concerned.
Mary Jane strides into the theater where she's working.
She comes through to the auditorium and her step falters.
Another actress is going through her moves on stage.
The actress spots Mary Jane at the back of the auditorium.
Sitting in a sea of empty seats, the producer and director followed the actress's awkward gaze.
The director puts on a fake smile.
The producer looks unconvinced by his own suggestion.
Mary Jane's blue eyes well up and she turns and walks away.
The artistic duo return to their seats.
Outside the theater, a crowd has gathered.
Mary Jane's glum expression melts away.
She smiles as they applaud.
Her smile quickly fades as she realizes the crowd is not for her.
She looks up at Spider-Man swinging by with barely fail resentment.
She hurries through the crowd as her name is covered up on the theater front with a name of Andrea Rubin.
Peter is standing amidst the delirious crowd, smiling to himself, drinking in the adulation.
A marching band cuts through the workers waving placards and balloons.
Brock approaches Gwen in the throng.
Peter snaps Mary Jane.
She forces a cheery smile as he walks off.
The smile drops as she watches him disappear into the crowd.
Elsewhere, stoney-faced Flint is lumbering along the street.
He tilts his head.
Some grains of sand seeps out of his ear.
He brushes them off his shoulder as he passes through cops.
The cops raced to the front and back of a large tarpaulin- covered lorry.
As pedestrians scatter, one of the cops stops along the side of the lorry with his gun drawn.
He looks up and sees the tarpaulin rippling.
He gestures to his partner, who holsters his gun and climbs a ladder on the back of the lorry.
He unfastens one of the ropes attached to the tarpaulin.
The tarpaulin flies off to reveal a cargo of tightly-packed sand.
The cop at the back of the lorry makes his way across the sand with a shovel.
He stops and raises the shovel like a spear.
Sand pushed the cop off the lorry onto the windscreen of a car.
A huge wave of sand spreads across the top of the lorry and forms into a gigantic hand which crumbles on the police gun fight.
Sandman rises up like a walking giant as a group of cops take aim.
As bits of Sandman crumble away in the gunfire, he sweeps down at the cops bursts in a bucket of sand blocking cars over as if they were toys.
At the key of the city ceremony, Gwen Stacy is at the lectern flanked by city dignitaries.
Photographers turn away from the stage pointing their lenses to the sky as red and blue balloons are released and Spider- Man comes swinging through the crowd, high-fiving them as sweeps past on a thread.
He perches on top of the stage.
He glides onto the stage upside down.
As Spider-Man hangs upside down in front of her, Gwen peels back his mask, exposing his mouth and plants a passionate kiss on him.
Mary Jane looks on in shock.
She walks off.
Everyone looks up as a string of sand whizzes past like an express train.
Elsewhere in the city, security guards load up an armored van with cash bags.
As the van doors are closed the sandstorm zooms in like a swarm of angry bees.
The guard driving looks at the shadow alongside the van as the mass of sand forms into a human shape standing on the roof.
Sandman punches a hole on the roof and board inside, overwhelming the guards with a torrent of sand.
The weight of the sand presses the accelerator on the van, picks up speed.
Flint is zipping up a bag of cash as Spider-Man drops through the hole in the roof of the van behind him.
Spider-Man dodges a couple of punches then puts his fist through Flint's stomach.
Flint's sandy fist swells to a huge size.
He punches Spider-Man through the back of the van, ripping the door off.
Spider-Man fires a thread at the runaway van, leaps onto the torn off door, and he's dragged along like a water scare as he dodges cars.
He hits wreckage and glides off it as if it were a ramp.
He lands on top of the van, hitting Flint with a volley of wet balls.
Flint punches Spider-Man off the roof.
Spider-Man clings on, but Flint punches him into the truck.
The van's heading for a collision and Spider-Man pulls the guards out.
He fires a thread out of the back of the van.
It flints and crashes into a parked truck.
Flint watches from the edge of a building above as Spider- Man staggers out of the red van, looking around frantically.
As Flint moves off, the rescued guards dropped from a web spun across the street.
Spider-Man wheezes up to the ledge of a building, pulls off his mask, and shakes sand from his hair.
He pulls off his left boot and shakes out some more sand.
Later in the evening, Peter dressed smartly in a sober suit, his dark hair swept across in a neat side parting, stops a few feet away from the entrance of the restaurant constellation and pulls Aunt May's ring out of his breast pocket.
Looking agitated, Mary Jane strides up alongside a newsstand.
She storms off with a face like thunder.
Inside the restaurant, Peter takes in the opulent splendor as diners and waiters flip past him.
He walks across the reception area.
He's being summoned by a maitre d' with a pencil and a stash who's behind a small counter.
The maitre d' has brought a pen on a silver platter.
The maitre d's dark beady eyes look firmly at Peter.
The maitre d' puts on specs to examine it.
Peter hands him a note.
The maitre d' clenches his fist.
He leads Peter to a table.
The maitre d' scurries away.
Peter snaps out of his role play and sees Mary Jane coming towards him in a little black dress.
He shows her to her seat and chivalrously pulls out her chair for her.
He spots simpering blonde Gwen waving at him.
He waves back.
The maitre d' summons the champagne.
Peter hurriedly shakes his head.
The maitre d' waves the waiters away.
Gwen waves at Peter as she walks away.
Peter waves back.
The maitre d' takes this as the signal.
The helpless waiters are called off again as Peter shakes his head.
The maitre d' bringing the champagne glasses passes Mary Jane as she storms out.
Peter stares after Mary Jane in shock as the maitre d' sets the glasses down on the table and the waiter brings a champagne bucket.
As a violinist serenades him, Peter picks up Mary Jane's glass and fishes the ring out of it with a fork.
He dries the ring with a napkin.
Hazy morning sunshine washes over the New York skyline.
Peter's on a payphone at his rundown digs.
At her home, Mary Jane is staring at her phone.
Mary Jane picks up the phone, but Peter's rung off.
He spins around and answers the phone.
Captain Stacy puts a mugshot down in front of Aunt May.
Peter snatches it up.
In black and white flashback, Peter sees his uncle sitting in his car on a dark street.
Flint taps at the driver's window with a gun.
Flint pushes Uncle Ben to the ground.
Flint's accomplice runs up.
Flint pushes him away.
The accomplice jumps into Uncle Ben's car.
Flint shoots Uncle Ben in cold blood.
A tear falls from Peter's eye as he imagines the scene.
Uncle Ben slumps to the ground, dead.
The accomplice drives away, leaving Flint behind.
Peter flings the photo of Flint down on the desk.
Later in his rundown digs, Peter taps his finger and broods.
The radio fires up.
Peter wrenches up the door.
He turns down the volume.
Mary Jane gives him a hurt, angry look, purses her lips and goes to the door.
She tugs at the door.
Peter, his face unmasked, his eyes cold, turns up the radio.
He stands brooding.
Later, he changes into his Spider-Man suit and stares intently at the radio on the chest of radios.
Beside it are photos of Mary Jane, Uncle Ben, and Aunt May.
He leans his head morosely against the doorpost.
Lighting flashes as he lies on his bed, relieving the attack on his uncle.
Something crawls across the floor.
Peter stirs, raises his head, then lies back down.
The unseen presence glides across the door and up onto the bed, casting a tangled black shadow on the wall.
In his sleep, Peter sees Uncle Ben looking into his killer's eyes.
The shiny black tendrils latched onto Peter's hand.
Flint shoots Ben.
The tendrils spread up Peter's arm, covering the Spider-Man suit like black ivy shoot smothering a tree.
Peter hands grip the sheet convulsively as the alien growth spreads down his torso.
In his dream, Peter pushes Flint's accomplice out the window.
The tendrils cover his face.
His eyes opened in horror.
Peter, his Spider-Man suit completely black, hangs upside down from a skyscraper, looking at his reflection in a dark- mirrored window.
He drops onto his feet on a ledge.
He takes a close look at his reflection.
He clenches his fingers.
He flips up the side of the building and leaps into the air.
Swinging from a thread, he sweeps low between the line of cars and up to a high roof adorned with lanterns.
He clings to one huge lantern, looks out over the city and pulls off his black hood.
In a science lab, the small black globule slips off the microscope and makes a beeline for Peter.
He traps it under a glass.
Peter comes home.
He crosses to his Spider-Man suit hanging on a rail and reaches for it.
He hesitates and looks down at the battered black trunk on the floor.
He crouches down and lifts the lid.
He contemplates the black spider suit inside.
Moments later, black-suited Spider-Man drops from a skyscraper.
A thread flashes out from his wrist.
He swings across the city.
An overturned taxi stands outside the blown open doors of a bank.
Black Spider-Man lands on the street and sees a trail of sand slithering down the grating.
Eddie Brock jumps out of a camp, camera at the ready as Black Spider-Man tears the heavy grill from the ground.
Spider-Man smashes Brock's camera.
He jumps down the manhole.
Brock glares down the manhole shaft after Black-suited Spider-Man as escort car start arriving.
He surreptitiously takes out another smaller camera.
Flint Marko strides along the tracks of a subway tunnel, carrying two clear sacks of banknotes.
A flash of light reveals Black Spider-Man crawling along the ceiling behind him.
Flint turns and looks up.
The shaft of light vanishes.
He sees nothing.
Flint turns and carries on walking.
Black Spider-Man hovers upside down in front of him.
Give Flint's fist.
Spider-Man touches stripes on a train and leaps on Flint.
Flint tumbles off the track into a deep tunnel.
He drops the money.
It falls onto a track far below.
Black Spider-Man swings at him on a thread.
Flint takes him away to the park of a train.
Black Spider-Man swings away to the gird as an archways, flying back to drop kick Flint into the side of a train.
He rubs Flint's head against the side of the passing train, grinding it away like cheese on a grater.
Flint drops to his knees and briefly becomes Sandman.
He sends Black Spider-Man ricocheting between two passing trains.
Spider-Man thumps Flint, knocking sandy lumps out of his face.
Both he and Flint fall down a white shaft, landing on a pipe halfway down.
It breaks.
Flint lands in a muddy puddle close to his money.
He reaches for it, but his arm has turned to damp sand.
He recoils in horror, watching as his hand disintegrates.
Above him, Black Spider-Man lands on a ledge and swings down onto a huge water pipe.
Black Spider-Man tears up the pipe.
Jets of water spring from the red holes.
Flint watches in horror.
A torrent of water sweeps Flint away down the concrete's loose.
He slams up against the grating.
The water rushes past him, dissolving his sandy body.
Black-suited Spider-Man watches pitilessly.
Flint crumbles to nothing and washes away.
Later, changed out of the Spider-Man suit, Peter walks through a dilapidated breeze block building, stopping to glance in a chipped mirror.
He tugs down his floppy forelock and stares intently at his reflection.
His forehead puckered into a frown, his eyes fierce.
Outside his digs, his landlord is mopping the floor.
Peter glances at his landlord's daughter, watching from a doorway.
The young woman comes up to her father.
In his flat, Peter closes the French windows to the small balcony and paces restlessly.
He examines his reflection in a mirror.
He unbuttons the front of his shirt.
Underneath, he glimpses the top of the black spider suit with its gray web and spider emblem.
He looks down at it uncertainly, his eyes wide and tinged with fear.
He tosses the black suit back into the trunk and
Backs away from it wearily.
Later, he visits Aunt May.
She looks into his eyes.
Peter blinks uncertainly.
Peter's expression wavers.
He glances at Aunt May's kindly face.
Later, Mary Jane steps out of the doorway of a jazz restaurant.
Its blue and red neon sign not yet switched on for business, offers nightly music, food, drink, and dancing.
With a glum expression, she gazes out into the gray daylight, pulls her coat collar around her neck, and heads away down the street.
Walking along the crowded pavement, Mary Jane looks wretched and alone.
She slumps down onto a bench and calls up a dial list on her mobile, highlighting the name Peter Parker, then hesitates and scrolls up to Harry Osborne.
Harry is expertly painting a still life.
Peter picks up a payphone in the hallway outside his room.
He drops a coin in the slot, sighs, and hangs up.
His landlord steps out of his flat, peeling an orange.
Peter looks at him searchingly.
The landlord's eyes widened.
Father and daughter go into their flat.
The daughter peeps back out and waves.
At the top of the Osborne luxury apartment building, lift doors open into palatial wood panel penthouse.
Harry is waiting for Mary Jane.
She takes a deep unhappy breath.
Harry gets busy in the kitchen.
He spoons chopped peppers into one pan, melts butter in another, and turns up the music with a remote.
Grinning cheerfully, he looks over his shoulder at Mary Jane chopping vegetables on the simple kitchen table.
She grins back at him and starts to dance the twist.
Harry smiles at her.
She tries to get him to join in.
She drags him away from the stove.
He joins in.
Bending his knees as he crouches lower and lower, behind him the pan starts to smoke.
Harry turns back to the stove and pours his egg.
Mary Jane sprinkles on the cheese.
Harry adds some rocket.
He flicks the omelette in half.
He tries to toss it in the pan.
Half of it falls to the floor.
Later, they read the script.
Mary Jane brushes Harry's dark hair back from his brow then lets her gaze meet his adoring eyes.
She pulls him towards her.
They kiss.
Mary Jane breaks off with a guilty look.
Harry watches helplessly as she hurries down the black and white marble floored hallway into the lift.
He storms into the study, grabs at the canter, and takes his wig.
His father's portrait glowers down at him.
Harry gates.
He turns towards a tall mirror.
Harry stares at his reflection and moves slowly towards it, hand out stretched.
As his fingers touched the glass, in flashback, he sees Spider-Man standing over Norman's body and remembers pulling the Spider-Man mask off Peter's face.
Harry remembers falling and waking up in the hospital.
Harry's father looks back at him from the mirror.
At night, Mary Jane comes home and hits the light switch.
The lights don't come on.
Harry in his goblin suit grabs Mary Jane by the throat.
Hovering on his sky stick, he holds up in against the wall.
Ursula, the landlord's daughter, smiles awkwardly.
He hurries into the hallway.
Peter nervously takes up the receiver.
A couple strolled by the boating lake in Central Park.
Peter, wearing a blue jumper over a blue shirt and jeans and clutching a small posy of flowers, stops in his tracks as he spots Mary Jane standing alone in the middle of a graceful cast iron bridge.
He hurries on to meet her.
He offers up the flowers.
She looks at them unhappily.
She turns aside, putting her hand over her eyes.
Peter fumbles in his pocket for Aunt May's ring.
Peter, looking as if he's been hit in the stomach, watches in numb shock as she hurries away off the bridge.
A little way further along the lake, Harry is leaning against a tree observing the scene.
He turns with a cruel smile as Mary Jane comes past, arms folded, and glares at him.
Mary Jane turns away angrily and carries on.
Harry lets his head drop against the tree trunk with a smile of satisfaction.
Later, he meets Peter in a coffee shop.
Harry draws breath.
Peter looks Harry in the eye.
Peter shakes his head and looks away in a daze.
Blinking in shock and disbelief, Peter gets up and leaves.
A waitress comes over to Harry with a coffee jar.
Harry grins.
Peter, crossing the road, turns and looks back.
Harry smiles and wink.
A truck briefly blocks Peter's view.
When it passes, Harry has disappeared from the coffee shop.
Peter turns and looks around the street, eyes wide, mouth half open.
Later, he sits on the bed in his room, hands clasped between his knees.
Staring ahead, his expression cold and malevolent.
Slowly, his eyes swiveled to the corner of the room.
He turns his head and homes in on the black trunk on the floor of the closet.
Lightning flashes in a dark sky.
In his father's study, Harry pours himself a martini and adds a couple of olives.
Sensing Peter behind him, he smiles without looking around.
Harry sips his drink.
Peter, wearing the black suit under his normal clothes, punches Harry.
Peter's eyes widened.
Harry stabbed him in the thigh with a dagger.
As they fight, a row of curved blade shoot out in Harry's forearm.
Peter hauls him into a pummeled wall.
Harry swings at it.
Harry smashes his arm at Peter's head.
The blades get stuck in the pillar behind.
Peter slams his fist down on Harry's arm, breaking off the blades.
Harry kicks him across the table.
They circle each other.
Peter kicks Harry through a glass partition.
Harry wipes blood from his mouth.
He dives at Peter who hauls him against another window.
Peter throws Harry across the room.
Harry picks himself up.
They run at each other and crash through into the secret goblin lair.
As Peter chases him through the lair, Harry picks up the goblin sword and swings it at him.
Peter dodges the blade.
Harry accidentally cuts through the table, tethering the sky stick, sending it spinning out of control.
Peter pushes Harry's head up into the path of the sky stick.
Harry's thrown against the wall of glass shelves and crashes to the ground.
Peter flaws Harry with a final blow and walks away.
Harry finds a pumpkin bomb to hand and hauls it after him.
Peter lassos the bomb with a web and hauls it back, explode in Harry's face.
Peter strolls along a street, fastening his shirt collar over the Black Spider-Man suit.
Several women passing by give him the eye.
At a newsstand, the Daily Bugle photo shows Black Spider- Man robbing a bank.
In the Bugle office, Brock's celebrating.
Brock hangs up a framed glow up of the front page.
Peter comes up behind him.
Peter drops a photo on the desk.
Peter slams Brock against the wall.
Brock looks around, smiling nervously.
Peter hands Robby, the sub-editor, the original print from which Brock has faked the bank robbery shot.
In Jameson's office, Jameson slaps the photo down.
Floppy-head Peter is in his hallway with Ursula.
Peter takes a cookie.
Peter pulls a face and drinks his glass of milk.
Later, he struts and jives down the street like one of John Travolta in Saturday Night Fever.
The slender Black woman passing by gives him a pitying glance.
In Jameson's office, he stands very close to Betty.
Peter sneers.
Peter sits in Jameson's chair, helps himself to a bowl of sweets and puts his feet up on the desk with a supercilious smile.
Robbie and Jameson looked at him dumbfounded.
Out on the street, Peter jives down the road, making shooting gestures with his fingers at any pretty girl who walks by.
He swaggers into a clothes shop and comes out wearing a sharp black suit and black open neck shirt.
On the pavement, he launches into another hip-thrusting 'dance routine.
People on the street give him strange looks and hurry on by.
He sorters coolly away.
On the outskirts of the city water from a sewer outfall drops into a pond, a line of bubbles cleave the water, leaving a trail behind.
A muddy figure made of sand materializes on the swampy bank and hauls itself upright.
Drying out and becoming human, Flint stares at his hands, dangling from his fingers as the locket and chain with Penny's photograph.
He gazes at the tiny image.
His eyes filled with resolve.
Peter is with Gwen.
Brock watches bitterly as they cross the street towards the jazz club.
Gwen looks around.
Peter spots Mary Jane waitressing.
Peter beckons the hostess and slips her a wad of money.
Peter gallantly gestures for her to sit down.
He sits behind her, facing the on-stage back.
Mary Jane goes by with a tray of drinks.
Gwen notices Peter glance at her.
Mary Jane puts down her tray and hurries up onto the stage.
Peter glances at Gwen out of the corner of his eye.
He slips away to the stage.
Just as Mary Jane is about to sing, he comes in on piano.
Gwen looks up and realizes it's Peter playing the piano.
He kicks away the stool, leaps onto the piano, and dances over the tables.
Grabbing a martini from a customer, Peter swings across the room on a chandelier, puts his legs around the chair, and slides back across the dance floor, scattering customers.
He drops to the floor, spins the chair, and poses with it.
He dances towards Gwen and rips his black suit jacket off his shoulders.
She gasps.
He tosses the jacket towards Mary Jane on stage and strikes a series of poses.
Clicking his fingers, he salsas over to Gwen holding out his hand.
She takes it and rises to her feet.
Mary Jane looks devastated as he leads Gwen into the center of the dance floor.
They start to dance slowly, their faces close together.
Peter suddenly throws in a fancy move.
Gwen throws her head back.
Peter puts his hand on her thigh and raises her leg.
As the number ends, he bends her over in his arms.
Peter's cold black eyes settled on Mary Jane who looks devastated.
Gwen follows his gaze and turns to him in shock.
She gives Peter a reproving look and crosses to Mary Jane who's standing motionless behind the microphone.
Gwen pushes her way past Peter.
Mary Jane hurries from the stage.
Peter, looking uncertain, puts his hand to his chest.
He comes up behind Mary Jane with a hostile scowl.
She turns to face him with scorn in her eyes.
Peter pins a bouncer against the wall and starts beating off two more.
He lashes out, sending Mary Jane careering to the floor.
His vicious expression turns to wide eyed shock as he realizes what he's done.
His eyes well up, then he glances down at the Black Spider- Man suit under his dark open neck shirt.
Covering the suit with his hand, he turns away from Mary Jane and hurries out into the night.
Mary Jane, still sitting on the floor, looks around helplessly.
Out in the rains wet street, Peter, keeping his hand clasped both his collar, steps into a doorway to think.
Drawn by the sound of the bells, he looks up at the torrential rain pours down.
A flash of lightning illuminates a Gothic church with a tall studded aspire topped by a stone crucifix.
The storm clouds slowly drift away, leaving a lowering gray sky.
Perch tie up on the studded side of the steeple, black- suited Spider-Man looks at his hand, flexes his fist, then drops from his perch like a bird shot from a tree.
He plummets down to a square archway, leading to the bell tower of the imposing cathedral, decorated with an intricate network of Gothic arches and flying buttresses.
Inside the cathedral, Eddie Brock dips his fingers in a font of holy water and crosses himself before the altar.
Up in the bell tower, Spider-Man claws at his mask, desperately trying to tear it off.
It tears and stretches like rubber then snaps back like a second skin.
He falls against the bell in a struggle.
For a second, the mask seems to disintegrate then snaps back into place.
Brock looks up at the sound.
Peter pulls up the mask, ripping it across his contorted features.
The black threads of the Symbiote sticking to his face like bulging veins.
As if in a trance, Brock is drawn to the screams of his nemesis, pushing open a door that leads to a staircase winding around the walls of the bell tower.
He looks up the vertiginous tower as if he were at the deep of a deep well.
Peter tears up the tattered skin tight black fabric across his chest.
A slither of Symbiote falls onto Brock's shoulder.
Above him, Peter tears the unraveling Symbiote from his body.
The slimy black Symbiote slithers off the edge of the ledge that Peter's on and snakes down the bell tower.
A globule lands in the palm of Brock's hand and spreads around him.
As more lands on his shoulder, it wraps itself around his body like ivy consuming the walls of a building.
Brock drops to his hands and knees, consumed by the black tendrils that pushed him to the floor as if he were stuck in a pool of tar.
The Symbiote devours Brock's face.
Like a wild cat with ferocious jagged teeth, he lurches forward as venom.
Later in his room, Peter is in the shower with the water streaming over his tightly closed eyes.
Slowly, his hooded dark eyes open with a dead vacant expression.
A short time later, he's sitting on his floor for lonely leaning against the French windows.
He trudges to the door and holds the door, which comes off in his hand.
He prices the door open with his fingertips.
Aunt May looks around his shabby room.
He puts the door knob down on a shelf.
He holds out the engagement ring and drops it into the palm of her hand.
He turns away from his aunt's inquiring eyes and goes over to the French windows.
His mournful face is lit by a ghostly blue blow from the city outside.
Aunt May puts the ring on the table and Peter half turns towards her.
As she softly leaves the room Peter turns his doleful gaze back to the window.
In a skin tight black Spider Man style suit Venom swinging through the city on pretz.
He is grabbed by Flint in an alleyway.
Venom Berziz finds Flint, tosses him to one side.
At night Peter walks under the illuminated canopy of the theater across the street from Mary Jane's apartment building.
In a lit top floor window he catches a glimpse of Mary Jane as she moves about her apartment.
His sorrowful blue eyes slowly moisten and fill with tears.
He bows his head and scocks away.
As Peter trudges off down the street Mary Jane looks out of the window at the deserted corner where he was standing moments earlier.
A short time later she comes out of her apartment block in her waitress uniform and hails a cab.
Armored vehicles are tossed to side like toys by bursts of sand.
Peter's in a crowd outside an electrical store watching the TV coverage in wide-eyed shock.
A short time later he takes a suitcase from under his bed and opens it to reveal his red and blue Spider Man suite.
He holds it up and gazes calmly at the spider emblazoned across the chest on its ribbed web.
His anxious eyes quieten.
Up in his mansion Harry turns off the TV and paces past a roaring fire with a hand clasped to his forehead.
He stops in front of the portrait of his father.
He half turns his head to look at Peter who is in his Spider Man suite but without the mask.
Lit by the glow from the fire Harry turns round fully to face Peter revealing ugly burns on his right cheek and a scar across his eye and throat.
Harry looks impassively at Peter, then shakes his head.
Peter turns away rebuffed and leaves by the balcony.
In the goblin layer Harry picks up the green goblin sword from among the debris on the floor.
With the disfigured side of his face in shadow, a tear glistens in Harry's good eye and he nods.
Bernard softly withdraws.
A huge searchlight picks up the yellow cab ensnared in a web high above the New York streets.
Encaged in the cab, Mary Jane looks around nervously.
The cab rocks.
The cab plummets down the web like a fish being tipped out of a net.
It comes to rest on a lower web.
A little girl in the vast crowd points up and a wave of heads turn to face Spider-Man swinging down on a thread.
Spider-Man leaps onto a building with the Stars and Stripes fluttering behind him, then launches himself towards the action.
He swings up a lamppost, past the reporter, Jennifer Dugan.
Spider-Man launches himself through the air, the night lights twinkling all around and lands on the bonnet of the yellow cab.
Venom swings into Spider-Man and knocks him through the windscreen, tearing off the roof.
Spider-Man clambers onto the boot as Venom's mask slithers off his face like a tangle of snakes to reveal Brock.
Brock grabs Mary Jane.
Brock sends Spider-man plummeting to a lower web.
Spider-Man's wrists are lashed to the web with webbing fired by Brock, who lands on top of him and tears off the Spider- Man mask.
Peter's eyes widen as a truck suspended above the yellow cab starts shedding its load of breeze blocks which rain down like giant hailstones, ripping a door off the cab.
Mary Jane tries to maneuver a breeze block lodged in the cab.
Peter struggles to free himself.
Mary Jane raises the breeze block above her head as the symbiote mask wraps itself around Brock's face.
She drops the breeze block, hitting the snarling Venom on the head.
Peter frees himself and punctures Venom.
They fall off the web and plummet down the side of the skyscraper as they're falling down the lift shaft, trading kicks and blows as they go.
Peter tries to pull his mask back on but drops it as he fires a thread just as he's about to hit the ground.
He lands in a deserted construction site, his suit ripped and torn.
He retrieves his mask then looks up sharply as the truck starts dropping towards the cab.
Mary Jane leaps out of the cab just before the truck hits it and clings to the web.
The sandy ground shakes, knocking Spider Man over as if a rug is being pulled from under him.
Out of a moving mountain of sand Sandman rises to his feet, towering over the cowering crowd like a colossus.
The crowd scatters as the huge, hulking, King Kong-like figure slams a car sized fist into the ground, narrowly missing Spiderman,
who looks up at Mary Jane, clinging onto the web.
Spider-Man dodges being squashed like a bug beneath Sandman's truck sized foot.
He whizzes past the giant beast on threads, with Sandman swatting at him as if he was a fly.
Mary Jane loses her grip, landing on the lower section of webs splayed out like a sacrificial victim.
She watches Spider-Man hurtling towards her.
Venom leaps out at Spider-Man, knocking him into column of girders that he bounces against as he falls.
He lands on a horizontal girder and turns to face Sandman, who slowly pulls himself up to his full height and towers over him like an elephant looking down on a mouse.
Standing beneath the girder, Venom fires a thread down Spider-Man's neck and pulls him onto his back, garroting him as Sandman brings his fist down like a steam hammer.
Spider-Man desperately reaches out a hand as he tries to free himself.
The web holding the cab above Mary Jane starts to break as Spider-Man is pummeled by Sandman's fist.
His mask torn.
Peter stretched out his hand towards Mary Jane.
She looks down helplessly as Sandman smashes his fist down on Peter, whose hand hangs limply at his side.
Sandman rear up for another blow.
A pumpkin bomb, which to Sandman is the size of a pimple, is fired into the side of his head.
Half of Sandman's head is blown away, and what's left of it looks like a bowl of burning coals.
A searchlight picks out the new goblin gliding through the air on his sky stick.
He sends Venom flying through some walls with a flick of his sky stick.
His mask peeling back to reveal Harry's disfigured face, he glides up alongside battered Peter.
Harry holds out a hand, and Peter clasps it firmly.
Harry nods, and Peter gets to his feet.
They spin round to face their enemies.
Venom flies at Peter.
Harry swings Peter like a club to hit Sandman.
He blasts Sandman arm with flames from his sky stick.
Sandman tries to grab Harry, but the monster's huge arm shatters like glass.
Jameson's in the crown below.
He tries to take a photograph.
The camera's empty.
Jameson glares at the girl.
Peter and Harry duck Sandman's huge fists.
Above them, the cab plummets towards Mary Jane.
The cab misses her.
She hangs on by a thread.
Harry and Peter fly towards her on the sky stick, weaving past the sandy hulk.
The thread breaks, and Mary Jane tumbles.
Peter slues the sky stick round.
Being onto each other, they surf past Sandman, and Peter leaps off the sky stick and catches her.
The watching crowd go wild as he swings away on a thread carrying Mary Jane in his arms and lands back on the half-built skyscraper.
He nods through his torn mask.
Sandman grabs at Harry.
Peter kicks sand in Sandman's eyes.
Sandman lumbers round, bemused, then punches Peter with his massive arm, sending him flying up to one of the upper floors of the half-completed building.
He's out of Sandman's reach.
He fires rockets from the sky stick.
They hit their target, and the enormous sand creature staggers back, crumbling and disintegrating.
As his huge left arm crumples into the ground leaving out of dust, the crowd whoop their delight.
High up on the skyscraper.
Peter, his Spider-Man mask badly torn, his eye and mouth quite visible, looks around for Venom.
As Peter turns his way and that, Venom grabs him from above and hurls him into a girder.
Peter falls on his face.
Venom lassos his wrists with two black threads and holds him to his knees.
He whacks him with an iron bar.
He hits him twice more, ripping the mask right off.
Venom holds the jagged metal bar to Peter's neck.
Venom's tendrils engulf Brock's face.
As he goes to stab Peter, a pumpkin bomb cuts into him.
Harry flies up.
Venom snatches the sky stick from under him.
As Harry falls, he gets a rack of long metal tubes that fall to the floor.
Peter still trapped watches as Venom puts his hands to his ears and seems to half-disintegrate.
Peter remembers hitting himself on the bell when he tried to tear the black suit off.
Venom leaps down Peter, wielding the sky stick as a weapon.
Harry steps in between them.
Harry looks down at the two blades protruding through his chest.
Venom hoists him up into the air and tosses him away.
Harry falls to the floor of the building Mary Jane is on.
Mary Jane runs to him.
Peter desperately tugs at the black threads holding his wrists.
He frees one hand and grabs a sharp spear of metal as Venom leaps at him.
Cutting himself free, he knocks Venom away.
Peter grabs two of the pipes.
Venom falls to his knees.
Peter spears the two pipes into the floor, grabs two more, and does the same, building a circular fence around Venom.
The monster reels and half-disintegrates from the noise.
Brock's face appears from within the symbiotic suit.
Peter shoots a thread, pulls him free, and holds him through the bars.
Behind Peter, the black spiky Venom suit assumes a life of its own, growing and flailing about.
Peter and Brook look on in amazement as it tries to break out of its cage.
Peter strikes the bells to make them ring then grabs a pumpkin bomb.
Brook leaps in after the bomb.
Peter puts a hand to his face to shield it from the blast.
When the spot clears, there's nothing left of the Brook or the Symbiote.
Behind him Flint materializes, sand pouring from his arm.
Mary Jane runs down to where Harry lies on his back.
She nods.
Up above, Peter drops the tube he was carrying, his expression numb.
Peter turns to find Flint right behind him.
Peter's eyes narrow fractionally.
As Peter listens, Flint's eyes become distant as he thinks back.
In black and white flashback, Uncle Ben sits in his car.
Flint comes up with a gun and taps on the window.
Uncle Ben squeezes Flint's shoulder.
In flashback, the accomplice runs up to Flint from behind and knocks him on the shoulder as he makes for the car.
The gun discharges.
Uncle Ben's eyes close, and he falls to the ground.
Flint looks on eyes wide with horror.
He kneels over the dying man as his partner drives away.
Flint lowers his eyes for a moment then looks back up at Peter.
Peter frowns as he struggles to understand.
Then lowers his grief-stricken eyes and nods to himself.
He looks back at Flint who meets his steadfast gaze.
Flint goes over to the edge of the skyscraper and looks down at the emergency vehicles far below.
A pale, dawn light is spreading across the sky above them.
He looks at the silver locket he holds in his hand, with its tiny photograph of his daughter, and turns back to Peter.
His eyes brimming, Flint looks sorrowfully but steadily at Peter, who nods with a look of understanding.
The ghost of a smile flickers across Peter's face.
Flint nods faintly and starts to disintegrate into a whirling eddy of sand.
The sand cloud drifts off, snaking its way between the city buildings.
Peter watches it until it completely disappears.
He takes a breath, closes his eyes, and swallows hard.
Then slides down a thread towards Mary Jane, cradling Harry's head in her arms.
Peter trots around and kneels on the other side from her.
Their eyes meet.
Their faces lit by the morning sun.
Harry's scarred face looks up at Peter, and he shakes his head.
Peter looks over at Mary Jane, but she shakes her head, her eyes full of tears.
Peter nods and smiles, close to tears.
Harry's pale, handsome face cracks a weak smile.
His eyes lose focus.
His head lolls to one side, and his eyelids close.
Peter's lip trembles, and tears pour down his cheeks.
Mary Jane bites her lip, clasping her fingers to her throat.
Kneeling on either side of Harry's body, framed by an arc of girders and the dawn light of the clouds beyond, the two childhood friends bow their heads in shared sorrow.
Later, under a gray sky beneath spreading trees in full summer leaf, a crowd of mourners shelter under their umbrellas in silence.
Peter and Aunt May stand side by side across from Mary Jane.
Captain Stacy sits with Gwen.
In front of them, Harry's old butler, Bernard, gets to his feet and places a single, white rose on his master's coffin.
Other mourners follow suit.
Sometime later, Mary Jane wearing a red dress sings on the stage at the crowded jazz club.
Peter, in his smart suit, gazes at her as he listens.
Mary Jane spots him, and he comes towards her with a tentative expression.
He stops in front of the stage and looks up at Mary Jane.
She looks at him equally cautiously.
He holds out his hand.
Tilting her head to one side, she steps to the edge of the stage and puts her hand in his.
With neither of them quite venturing a smile, Mary Jane steps down off the stage and slowly leans into him laying her head on his shoulder.
They put their arms around each other and Mary Jane's eyes fill with tears as she rests her hand on the back of his neck.
Slowly they dance around and around.
Peter, his face calm and steady, holds his cheek against her long, auburn hair.
In animation, city lights glow behind giant letters sitting on a cliff surrounded by shining spotlights.
In sepia tone film footage, people wearing early century clothing stand on a dock and wave toward a massive ocean liner, the RMS Titanic.
Passengers on board the moored ships doff their hats or wave to the people below.
Surrounded by inky darkness, a pair of small bluish white lights glow.
The lights grow brighter as two objects approach.
Now revealed to be deep sea submersives.
The two subs disappear as they sink into the dark ocean depths.
Later, the subs creep just above the ocean floor.
Their lights illuminated a small expansive pale sand.
A triangular shape appears on a sonar screen.
Ahead of the submersible, a prowl of the sunken ocean liner looms up.
A brown-haired man cranes his neck, as he stares out of one of the submersible portals
One sub rises over the tapered bow and railing.
Which are covered in a growth resembling drippy, gray concrete.
The sub's bright light shine over a thick chain lying accross a ship's deck.
The sub moves forward stirring up clouds of sediment as the second sub follows close behind.
A brown-haired man films himself with a camcorder as he stares out the window at the wreck.
The man smiles at a bearded crew mate.
Both subs glide of the wreck and illuminate twisted metal shapes encrusted with grayish growth
They pass along side upper balconies running down the side of the ship.
The man sets down his camcorder as the subs descend toward the wreck.
Lights illuminate rectangular windows with panes of broken glass.
A crewman operates a remote control with a joystick.
Outside a small robotic vehicle attached to a tether engages from the sub.
Duncan enters a hole in the side of the haul and films a door with an ornate leaded glass window.
Powered by a small propeller, Duncan glides past the door.
Outside, the other sub releases a second remotely operated vehicle.
Snoop Dog descends into an open pit in the ship's hull.
Snoop Dog moves through an opening.
Its bright lights illuminate a crystal chandelier, still dangling from a ceiling.
Snoop Dog glides up a corridor.
A partially decayed boot lies on the sediment beside a pair of eyeglasses missing one lens.
Nearby, a porcelain doll's face juts out of the silt.
Snoop Dog's lamps shine into a bunk room.
A broken door lies on the floor beside a dilapidated bed frame.
The bearded crewman stares into a visor as he pilots Snoop Dog through.
A pale eel slithers through the water as Snoop Dog approaches an elaborately carved fireplace surround and a mantel.
One of the robotic explorer shines its lights on the rotted remains of a grand piano.
Snoop Dog glides into a room.
The remains of a wooden bed lie collapsed on the floor.
Another eel swims past a porcelain bathtub.
Snoop Dog pivots toward a broken door lying in the silt.
The bearded man grasps the two joysticks as Snoop Dog extends a pair of mechanical claws.
Snoop Dog moves the door aside and uncovers a square object.
The brown-haired man squints as he studies a video monitor.
The silt settles, revealing an unopened safe.
On the ocean surface, a research vessel outfitted with cranes plucks the submersibles out of the water.
Men cheer as a winch raises a net holding the safe to the surface.
Lewis uncorks a bottle of champagne and sprays everyone as a crewman opens the safe with a cutting wheel.
A man pulls off the door, unleashing a flood of muddy water.
As a cameraman films him, Brock kneels and pulls out wads of sodden papers.
He removes a muddy ledger, which he tosses aside.
Brow furrowed, he empties the safe.
Scowling at the safe, Brock stands.
Later, Brock takes a phone call.
Nearby lab techs clean the muddy papers, revealing a sketch of a woman.
Reclining on a settee, the naked woman wears a large pendant around her neck.
Brock studies a photograph of a pendant necklace with a heart-shaped gem.
The same necklace the woman in the drawing is wearing.
Elsewhere, in a home, a young, long-haired woman walks past a small dog as she carries teacups to a table.
In an adjoining sunroom, a white-haired woman uses a pottery wheel.
Leaning on a cane, the older woman steps toward a small television set in a nearby kitchen.
Brock stands on the research area
Brock uses a satellite phone.
Holding the small white dog on her lap, Rose and the young woman ride inside a helicopter as it flies out to the research ship.
Brock and Lewis move to a railing as the helicopter approaches.
They moved towards the Landing pad as the helicopter touches down
Crewman unloads several suitcases and a large trunk.
Rose shakes Brock's hand.
The long haired woman smiles and pushes Rose away in a wheelchair.
A man aboard the helicopter hands a fishbowl to Brock.
Later, Rose sets framed photographs beside the fishbowl.
In the lab, Rose peers down at the clean sketch which rests in a container of clear liquid.
She closes her eyes.
A blonde man with a few stray locks over his eyes sketches the drawing.
Rose smiles as she picks up the silver hand mirror.
Rose turns the mirror in her hands, catching her own reflection in the cracked glass.
She sets down the mirror and examines other objects.
She picks up a silver and glass hair comb adorned with an ornamental insect with outstretched wings.
Rose gulps as she stares at the comb.
Brock kneels beside her.
Rose nods.
Later, a computer animation of the Titanic striking an iceberg.
Lizzie stands behind her grandmother as Rose climbs out of her wheelchair.
The crew watches Rose as she shuffles to a video monitor displaying footage of the Titanic wreck.
Rose blinks and inhales sharply as the door with the ornate, leaded glass window comes into view.
In a flashback, two men wearing tuxedos smile and nod as they open a pair of doors with leaded glass windows.
On the video monitor, grayish growth covers the window's ornate scrollwork.
Rose places her hands over her mouth.
Rose turns away from the monitor and returns to her wheelchair.
Brock switches on a tape recorder as he sits across from Rose.
Brock grins, then nods.
On a video monitor behind Rose, the corroded Titanic wreck transforms into a gleaming ocean liner moored alongside a dock.
Passengers walk up one of three gangplanks.
Men and women toting suitcases make their way to the Titanic.
A crane loads an antique car onto the ship.
Sitting in her father's arms, a young brunette girl watches a fleet of gleaming automobiles arrive.
A chauffeur wearing a tweed uniform and black leather gloves steps out of the driver's seat and opens the car's back door.
He takes a woman's gloved hand as she steps out of the car.
The brown haired woman, who wears a white dress with thin black stripes and a large brimmed hat, gazes up at the enormous ship.
A black haired man wearing a bowler hat and grey suit steps out behind her.
The man hands over money.
The man checks his pocket watch then steps to Rose and her mother.
Rose follows her fiancee, Cal Hockley, through the crowd.
A health inspector runs a comb through a man's dark hair and beard.
Ruth strides ahead of Rose and Cal as they walk up a gangplank.
Inside a saloon with a view of the Titanic men smoke and drink as they play a game of cards.
A brown haired card player turns to a man beside him.
Blonde Jack deals Sven another card and then exchanges one of his own for a card from the deck.
Eyes narrowed, Jack smokes a cigarette as he peers across the table to Sven's partner.
Several silver coins, a pocketknife, a pocket watch, and a pair of third class tickets for the Titanic rest in the middle of the table.
A black haired man raps his knuckles on the table.
Sven lays down his cards.
Fabrizio snatches the tickets and dances.
As Jack sweeps up the coins, Olaf grabs his collar.
Jack closes his eyes as Olaf makes a fist but Olaf punches Sven instead.
Jack kisses the tickets and hugs Fabrizio as Olaf throttles Sven.
Fabrizio quickly sweeps the winnings into Jack's cap.
Later, the two young men run along the dock.
Jack and Fabrizio run up a gangplank.
Carrying sacks over their shoulder, Jack and, Fabrizio dashed into the ship.
They run onto one of the upper decks and wave to arm lockers from a railing.
Black smoke belches from one of the Titanic's four stacks.
Hundreds of passengers wave to the people on the dock below as tugboats pulled the Titanic away from the shore.
Turning up clouds of silt, on the dock, a bearded man turns a crank on a movie camera as the ship glides forward.
White seagulls appear no larger than insects as they flutter past the Titanic's massive crowd.
Four rows of portholes line the sides of the ocean liner which glides past a small two-manned sailboat.
inside the Titanic a brown haired women herds a young boy and girl up a corridor.
Jack and Fabrizio pass in the opposite direction.
Jack enters a berth.
Jack's roommates exchanged puzzled looks.
In her cabin, Rose unpacks a painting.
A porter carries in a pair of suitcases as Cal enters from the adjoining promenade deck.
As a porter wheels in a safe on a dolly, Cal jams a bottle of champagne into an ice bucket.
As the Titanic cruises in open water, the white-bearded captain steps up beside the first officer.
Murdoch strides into the wheel house.
Moody pulls a telegraph lever to a head full in the engine room and needle on an identical machine moved to the same position.
Men dashed along catwalks as turning gears pumped huge pistons up and down.
The mustached foreman turns the wheel connected to several steam in the smokey boiler room and covered in coal of large furnaces
A needle rises on a steamed pressure gauge.
Pumping pistons move faster and faster, slices through the ocean.
On deck, Jack and Fabrizio, growling against the railing.
Behind them, Captain Smith stands on the uppermost deck outside the pilot hub.
First Officer Murdoch steps up beside him.
The captain glances at him and grins.
jack points towards something below.
A dolphin swims ahead of the ship.
Other dolphins join the first one
The dolphins zoom through the clear water like zig-zaging torpedo.
One dolphin leaps out of the water.
Jack smiles as he gazes down at the dolphins behind them a crew member hand a teacup to Captain Smith.
He sips his drink while gazing out to sea.
From the boiler room, man dump wheelbarrows of coal beside stokers who shovel the fuel.
An engineer leans over a railing as massive pistons pump on either side of it.
Grabbing onto a cable, Jack stands on the railing of the ship's prow.
Jack raises his arms over his head.
With his arms spread, Jack tilts his head back and closes his eyes as the enormous ship surges across the ocean.
While Ruth, Rose, and Cal lunch with several guests including Molly Brown and a brown-haired man with a mustache.
Ruth stiffens as Rose lights a cigarette in a holder.
Rose inhales then blows the smoke in her mother's direction.
Cal snatches the cigarette and stubs it out.
Rose smiles at Cal.
Rose stands and leaves the table.
Brunette girl stands on a railing as her father grips her from behind.
Sitting a few feet away, Jack sketches them with a stick of charcoal.
Crewmen walk dogs on leashes.
The brown-haired Irishman extends his hand to Jack.
Jack gazes across the ship.
Rose stepped to a railing on an upper deck behind Tommy.
Tommy turns and glances at her then grins at Jack.
Jack stares up at Rose.
She glances in his direction then looks away.
She peeks towards him from the corner of her eyes.
Fabrizio waves his hand in front of Jack's face.
Cal steps up behind Rose and grabs her arm.
They exchange words, and Rose strides off.
Cal rolls his eyes and trails after her.
Wearing a ruby-colored evening gown, Rose shoves past other passengers as she runs down a deck.
Rose opens a gate then dashes down the lower deck leading to the rear of the ship.
Meanwhile, Jack lies on a bench and smokes a cigarette as he gazes up at the starry sky.
He sits up as Rose runs past.
Tears streaming down her face, Rose runs onto the poop deck at the rear of the ship.
She glances over her shoulder.
She gazes down at the churning water.
She places her hands on the railing, then climbs onto its first wrung.
Holding onto a flag pole, she swings her feet over railing one at a time then lowers herself onto the gun wheel.
Gripping the railing for support, Rose turns and faces the water.
The wind whips her curly, auburn hair around her face.
She leans forward over the ocean.
Jack creeps up behind her
He takes a last puff on his cigarette then leans forward and tosses it off the ship.
He places his hands into his pocket and turns to Rose.
Jack removes his coat.
He unlaces his boots and pulls them off.
Rose stares down at the water then studies Jack.
He takes off his vest.
Jack reaches out his hand.
Rose grabs it then turns around on a narrow ledge and stares into Jack's eyes.
He smiles.
Rose steps on a hem of her dress and slips.
He pulls Rose up.
Three nearby sailors turn and run toward Jack.
Rose grips the railing with her free hand as Jack holds her up and on to the poop deck as Jack wraps his arms around Rose's torso and lifts her back over the rail.
Jack falls on top of Rose as she is spilled onto the deck.
The sailors run up to them.
One sailor glances at Jack and then at Rose's torn dress.
Jack stands and places his hands into his trouser pockets.
Later, Rose is wrapped in a blanket as men handcuffed Jack.
Jack glances at wide eyed Rose.
Cal rubs Rose's arms.
Cal strides back to Jack.
Rose glances at Jack before leaving with Cal.
Jack motions over Cal's brown-haired man servant.
He steps up to Jack and holds out a cigarette case.
Jack takes two cigarettes, placing one in his mouth and the other behind his left ear.
Jack looks down at his unlaced boots.
Jack looks down as the man walks off.
In her berth, Rose sits at a vanity table and holds her silver hand mirror.
She sets down the mirror as Cal opens the door.
Cal opens a box containing the heart of the ocean.
He fastens the necklace with a blue heart-shaped diamond on Rose.
Rose strokes the necklace as she gazes at her own reflection on the vanity mirror.
Cal kneels beside Rose.
She stares at him.
Cal smiles at the blank-faced Rose who blinks then turns and stares at her reflection.
She places her right hand over the diamond.
Daytime, Jack and Rose walk along in upper deck.
Rose holds out her engagement ring.
Rose shakes Jack's hand up and down.
She releases his hand and walks away.
She stares at him with her mouth open.
She snatches Jack's sketchbook.
Jack sits beside Rose as she flips through his drawings.
She studies a sketch of a woman breastfeeding an infant.
She turns to a drawing of a nude woman lying on her side with a cigarette on her mouth.
Another sketch depicts a nude woman standing against a ballet bar.
Rose closes the sketchbook as another passenger walks past.
Smiling, Rose turns to his sketch of a nude dark-haired woman lying with one arm stretched over her head.
Another drawing of just a pair of hands.
Rose looks down open-mouth as Jack flip to another drawing.
A fully-clothed middle-aged woman.
Rose smiles at Jack.
Her smile fades.
In a dining room, Ruth sips tea with two other women.
Ruth nods at Molly then strides off.
Nearby mustached Ismay sits with the captain.
Jack takes Rose's hand.
He pulled her to a different section of the railing.
Jack spits.
Rose leans forward and spits.
Rose's mother and her friends stroll nearby.
As Ruth steps up, Rose taps Jacks arm.
He turns around and swallows.
Rose steps towards her mother then glances at Jack.
Smiling at Jack, Molly points to her own chin.
Jack quickly wipes saliva off his own chin.
Jack waves as Rose and her mother walk off.
Jack lifts his hands and shrugs.
Elsewhere, Molly helps Jack into a black tuxedo jacket.
Molly and Jack gaze into a full-length mirror.
At dusk, the Titanic trails black smoke from its four smoke stacks, the funnels, as it sails toward the setting sun.
Later, a steward opens a door for Jack.
Wearing a white tie and shirt, Jack smiles at the steward as he steps inside.
He pauses, then walks toward an ornate railing and columns beneath the dome skylight.
Jack steps to the railing and gazes down at a couple descending the ship's grand staircase.
Jack glances up at the skylight and walks down the staircase to the landing where he studies a wall clock with an elaborately carved wooden casing.
Jack descends past a winged statue.
Couples wearing forming evening wear stroll or stand about chatting.
Jack leans against a column, then glances at a bearded man standing erect with his left arm behind his back.
Jack stands up straight and places his own arm behind his back.
Jack nods to the man as he and a woman stroll past.
Jack watches the couple, then gazes up the staircase as Cal and Ruth descend toward him.
Cal eyes Jack as they stepped past him.
From the staircase's landing, Rose gazes down at Jack who pretends to shake somebody's hand, practicing to be a gentleman.
He turns and looks up at Rose who wears a floor length black lace dress.
She smiles and descends the stairs toward him.
Rose stops a few steps above Jack who takes her white gloved hand and kisses it.
Jack holds out his bent right arm for Rose who takes it.
She smiles as he tilts back his chin, nose in the air.
Arm-in-arm, they stroll up to Cal.
Cal and Ruth step arm-in-arm toward the reception room.
Rose smiles at Jack as they follow.
Later Rose and Jack descend another wide, curving staircase.
A dark haired woman speaking with a white-haired man.
They gaze toward a group of people.
Molly takes Jack's other arm.
Rose, Jack, and Molly step into the large dining room.
Mustached Astor returns.
Jack and Rose stroll through the dining room.
They stop at their table.
Jack waves his hand.
Rose gestures across the table at Jack to put his napkin in his lap.
Jack gazes down at an array of silverware placed on both sides of the charter holding his plate.
The waiter spoons a dollop of black caviar into Jack's dinner plate.
Rose smiles.
Jack grins at Rose.
Molly glares at Ruth.
The waiter refills Jack's glass.
Jack tosses a box of matches to Cal.
Rose raises her glass.
They all toast.
Jack raises his glass to Rose.
Cal lifts his glass, frowns and then sips.
Later, a waiter pushes a cart laden with desserts.
Jack hands a pen to Molly.
Cal lobs the matches back to Jack.
He slips them into his pocket, then approaches Rose.
Rose smiles.
Ruth stares at them.
Kissing her hand, Jack slips a note to Rose.
He turns and walks off, glancing back at her over his shoulder.
As Ruth stares at her daughter, Rose gazes across the room toward the door.
Beneath the skylight, Jack stands on the landing and faces the clock.
Rose steps to the bottom of the staircase.
Lifting her dress slightly, she ascends the stairs.
Jack turns.
Another play is a set of pipes.
Two men swing each other around on the platform as couples dance.
Fabrizio dances with a blonde woman, Helga.
He places his hand on her back.
Jack, now with his tie removed and sleeves rolled up, dances with Cora, a little girl with dark hair.
Some people clap their hands in time to the music.
Rose sits at a table with blonde Bjorn as Tommy sets down several glasses of beer.
Tommy sets a beer in front of Rose.
Rose claps her hands as she watches Jack.
Nearby, a man falls to the floor.
Two other men help him up, while another hands the man his drink.
Jack spins Cora as Fabrizio and Helga prance back and forth.
He waves rose over.
They stand on the dance floor.
Jack pulls Rose close.
Cora stands watching them.
Cora smiles.
Jack and Rose dance through the crowd.
Fabrizio and Helga climb onto the platform, then dance.
Jack and Rose whirl around.
Jack pulls arm of the rose and then performs a special dance
Watching him Rose, pulls off her shoes, tosses them to a nearby woman, then holds up the hem of her dress
Jack smiles, claps his hands.
When he stops, Rose dances.
They link arms and dance in a circle.
Other couples dance around them.
Jack and Rose hold hands, then face each other and spin faster and faster
In the smoking room, a steward lights Cal's cigar.
Others talk or smoke cigars.
Tommy and Bjorn arm wrestle as others cheer.
Jack steps up to their table and, reaching over Bjorn, grabs two glasses of beer.
He hands one glass to Rose, then drinks from his own.
Jack watches Rose gulp down most of her beer.
A bearded man knocks into Jack and spills his beer on Rose.
Bjorn slammed Thomas' fist to the tabletop.
Rose pulls Tommy's cigarette from his mouth.
Rose puffs on it.
She blows out smoke and hands Jack the hem of her skirt.
As Jack holds onto her dress, Rose slowly lifts her heels and rises onto her toes.
Jack gazes down as Rose stands on her tiptoes and collapses into Jack's arms.
Cal's manservant, Lovejoy, descends halfway down the staircase and peers around the room.
He spies Jack holding Rose in his arms.
The couples hold hands as they dance in a line through the crowded room.
Fabrizio grabs Rose's hand and she grabs Jack.
The line of dancers snake through the clapping drinking crowd
The next day, Rose and Cal eat breakfast at a table in the private promenade.
Cal shakes his head.
As Rose stirs her coffee, she and Cal exchange glances.
Cal stands and flips over their dining table.
Cal walks away.
As he steps through the doorway, an aproned woman rushes over to Rose, then bends and picks up dishes.
Rose crouches to help.
Rose lays her hand on dark haired Trudy's shoulder and sinks against her chair.
Later in Rose's room, Trudy laces up the back of Rose's corset.
Ruth steps in.
Trudy curtsies and steps out.
Ruth walks to Rose and ties the laces of her corset.
Turning her head, Ruth covers her mouth.
She closes her eyes, exhales, and drops her hand.
Ruth turns back to Rose.
Ruth gazes at Rose, then reaches out her hands.
Gently cradling Rose's face, Ruth kisses her cheek.
She turns Rose back around, then continues lacing the corset.
Rose grimaces as Ruth tightens the laces.
In the dining room, a man plays piano as first class passengers, holding sheet music, sing.
Rose stands between Cal and her mother.
Jack descends the grand staircase.
One hand in his pocket, Jack strolls toward the dining room where two stewards stand outside its doors.
One steward wearing a dark suit steps in front of Jack.
Inside, Lovejoy steps toward the door.
Lovejoy emerges.
Lovejoy hands the money to the steward.
The two stewards escort Jack away.
On the bridge, a crewman steps up to the captain.
Captain Smith reads a note, then smiles at Ruth.
Outside, Jack climbs a railing, then hops onto a deck where a boy wearing a cap winds a string around a top.
The boy spins the top on the deck.
Jack steps toward another railing, pauses, and picks up a black bowler hat and long coat from a chair.
Donning the hat, Jack wets his fingers and plasters down his hair.
Wearing the hat and coat, Jack grabs Rose's arm.
They hurry through a door to a gymnasium.
Jack places his hand on Rose's cheek.
Rose places her gloved hand over his.
She steps outside.
Jack watches her leave through a wavy window glass, then gazes downward.
Later, in the first class lounge, Ruth, Rose, the Countess, and another woman drink tea.
Rose gazes toward another table where a woman pulls a slouching young girl upright.
Rose watches the girl places a napkin on her lap with her small gloved hands.
Jack leans on a railing for a balance and stares into the sea.
Wind ruffles his hair.
Rose steps across the deck toward him.
He turns and faces her.
Jack smiles.
Rose walks toward him.
Rose reaches out.
They hold hands.
Jack gently pulls her toward himself.
Rose closes her eyes.
Grasping her hand, Jack helps Rose onto the bow, rail platform.
They both step onto the lowest rung of the railing.
Then holds her arms out like wings.
The wind blows her shawl back on her outstretched arms.
He places his hands around her waist as she open her eyes
Black smoke trails from the ship's funnels as Jack and Rose stand at the rail high above the water
Jack reaches out and grasps Rose's hands and leans his face close to hers.
Jack folds Rose's arms around her waist.
She turns his face to him, and they kiss.
Rose places her hand on the back of Jack's neck.
The sunken Titanic sits on the bottom of the ocean.
The elderly Rose turns from a monitor and addresses the crew of the salvage vessel.
Rose gazes back at the monitor which shows the underwater image of the fireplace in her former suite.
The room transforms into its former state as young Rose and Jack step inside.
Jack rushes toward a painting.
Rose opens the safe.
Rose hands the Heart of the Ocean necklace to Jack.
Jack shakes his head as he examines the faceted blue diamond.
Jack turns to Rose.
Later, Rose removes the butterfly cone from her hair.
Then shakes out her hair, which falls to her shoulders.
Jack drags a settee to the center of the room and places one pillow atop another.
Sitting in a chair, near the settee, Jack opens a canvas bag.
He removes a knife and a thin stick of charcoal which he sharpens.
Jack looks up as Rose steps into the room.
Holding a kimono close with one hand, Rose lifts a sash and twirls it.
Jack smiles.
Rose steps toward Jack.
He sits back.
She tosses a dime to Jack.
Rose steps backward, then slips the kimono from her shoulders.
The kimono slides to the floor.
Naked, Rose runs her fingertips over her own thigh.
Jack points toward the settee.
Rose steps to the settee, then stretches out on it.
Rose drapes one arm along the back of the settee.
Rose lays her hand on the pillow behind her head.
She places her right hand near her temple.
Smiling, Rose lowers her head.
Rose licks her lips.
Jack peers over the top of his sketchpad, then draws a line.
Looking from the paper to Rose, he sketches.
Jack grins as he draws.
He runs his charcoal across the paper creating faint arcs.
He jerks his head to toss his hair out of his eyes.
He adds details as he fleshes out the sketch.
Jack smiles as he darkens a shadow under Rose's breasts.
Rose gazes at Jack as he draws.
With his finger, rubs various parts of the charcoal drawing, Rose's hand, forehead and face.
Rose stares expressionless.
Gradually, wrinkles form around her eyes, and she transforms into her older self.
The crew members and Rose's granddaughter, Lizzie, stare at her.
Brock and Lizzie exchange smiles.
Jack signs and dates the drawing, then blows on it.
He closes his sketchbook and hands it to Rose.
They kiss.
Later, Rose writes on a sheet of paper.
Jack steps up to her.
She hands him the case holding the Heart of the Ocean.
Jack walks into the next room and slides the case into the safe.
In the first class smoking room, Lovejoy approaches Cal, who stands.
The Titanic moves slowly.
On the bridge, the helmsman turns the ship's wheel as a ship's officer steps up to Captain Smith.
Captain Smith looks down as he stirs a slice of lemon in his tea.
The captain walks off.
Stepping back into Rose's suite, he blows on his hands.
Wearing an evening dress, Rose joins him.
Rose grabs Jack.
She pulls him through the sitting room toward a door.
Lovejoy steps into the suite.
Rose and Jack hurry into Rose's bedroom.
Rose closes the door.
Lovejoy strides through the sitting room.
Jack and Rose step through another door into a corridor.
Lovejoy bursts into another room.
Jack and Rose hurry down the corridor.
Lovejoy opens a door and glimpses Jack and Rose, who walk faster.
Lovejoy follows them.
Jack and Rose run to an elevator.
They dash into the elevator.
The operator slides the grate shut.
Lovejoy runs up to the elevator and slams his hands against the grate.
As the elevator descends, Lovejoy glares through glass at them.
Rose raises her middle finger, then waves.
Lovejoy hurries to the staircase.
The elevator opens, and Rose and Jack spill out.
Lovejoy runs down a staircase as Jack and Rose scramble from the bottom of a different staircase.
Jack bumps onto a food table
He and Rose run through swinging doors into a white corridor, then stop.
Lovejoy runs up to the elevator, then scans the area around himself.
Lovejoy peers in a door's round window.
Rose rush down the corridor
They turn a corner and stop at a closed door.
Jack opens a different door.
They step inside as Lovejoy turns the corner and tries to open the door.
Inside, Rose holds her hands to her ears.
Jack peers down a ladder at rising smoke.
In the boiler room, men shovel coal into the furnaces.
Near them, Jack helps Rose down the ladder.
Jack and Rose run through the smoky boiler room, past men shoveling coal.
One man turns to watch them run past.
Rose and Jack run through drifting smoke.
A metal door opens.
Jack and Rose step through it and into the cargo hold.
They look around themselves as they walk past crates and stacks of boxes.
Leading Rose by the hand, Jack hurries around a stack of crates, then stops at a gleaming black car.
He lets go of Rose's hand, then peers inside the car.
Jack steps around Rose to the passenger door.
He holds out his hand and opens the door.
Rose takes his hand and steps up into the passenger compartment.
Jack shuts the door.
As Rose glances around herself, Jack steps into the open- sided driver's seat.
Rose pulls down a glass partition.
Rose reaches over Jack's shoulders, then pulls him into the passenger compartment.
Sitting on the seat, Jack puts his arm around Rose.
They gaze into each other's eyes as they interlock their fingers.
Rose lays her head on Jack's shoulder, then kisses his fingertips.
She places Jack's hand on her breast.
They kiss.
The Titanic leaves a long wake in the dark ocean.
In the metal crow's nest, attached to a mast.
Murdoch, with his collar up, peers over the railing outside the wheelhouse.
In the backseat of the car, Rose slaps her hand against the back window, then slowly slides it downward.
Naked and his face dripping with sweat, Jack lies on top of Rose.
He breathes heavily as they gaze at each other.
They kiss.
Rose strokes Jack's hair, then kisses his forehead.
He lays his head on her chest.
two stewards with Flashlights step down a short corridor and into the cargo hold.
Cal opens the safe.
He pulls out a note and Jack's portfolio.
Lovejoy approaches.
Cal opens the portfolio and studies the drawing of Rose.
He reads the note.
Cal's forehead tenses as he closes, then opens his eyes.
He glances at the note again.
In the hold, the two stewards creep toward the car.
One steward shines his flashlight in the car's steamed-up windows.
He snaps his fingers and points to the car, then yanks open the car door, revealing empty seats.
Smiling, Rose and Jack run onto the forward well deck.
Rose places her hand on Jack's lips and gazes at him.
They kiss.
Standing at the bridge rail, Murdoch glances down at them, smiles, and walks off.
Watching from the crow's nest, another man, Fleet, looks down and taps his comrade, Lee, on the arm.
They stare down at Jack and Rose.
The men turn and gaze past the ship.
Their eyes widen as a large iceberg looms, straight ahead.
Fleet rings the lookout bell three times and grabs a telephone, which rings on the bridge.
The quartermaster at the wheel glances back at the phone.
Officer Moody steps onto the bridge and answers the phone.
Moody hangs up and turns to Murdoch as he runs to the bridge door.
Quartermaster Hichens turns the wheel to the left.
Murdoch rushes over to the engine room telegraph and shifts the handle to full speed astern.
Hichens turns the wheel quickly.
In the engine room, the chief engineer spots the telegraph shift and drops a pot of steaming soup.
Turns the wheel until it stops.
Murdoch hurries to the bridge rail and peers at the iceberg.
In the engine room, an engineer yells.
Other engineers scurry around.
A red warning light flashes.
Engineers slam the furnace dampers shut.
Underwater, the ship's main propeller slows.
An engineer pulls down a thick lever.
All the propellers stop.
an Officer pushes an engineer out of the way and turns a wheel quickly to the right.
The propellers spin in the opposite direction.
In the crow's nest, the men stare at the iceberg as the ship heads straight toward it.
Murdoch stares at the iceberg.
Nearing the iceberg, the ship veers slowly to the left.
The ship's propellers turn and reverse
Sweat trickles down Murdoch's temples.
The ship's bow shifts to the left of the iceberg.
At the bow railing, a man runs toward it.
The ship scrapes along the side of the ice.
Jack and Rose stop kissing as the ship trembles.
On the bridge deck, Murdoch glances down at his hands, resting on the shaking rail.
Above, Fleet holds onto the rim of the crow's nest, while Lee sits on the floor.
In the bridge, Hichens keeps the wheel turned hard left.
Below deck, Fabrizio sits up in his bunk.
In the cargo hold, water shoots through a long tear in the hull.
In the cabin, Andrews sits at his desk.
He glances up at the trembling crystal chandelier above.
In the crow's nest, Fleet and Lee gaze at the iceberg.
On the bridge, Hichens turns the wheel to the right.
Meanwhile, water floods the cargo hold, knocking down the two stewards.
In the front well deck, Jack pushes rose back as the ship breaks off chunks of ice, which land on the deck and knock down two men.
The ship continues moving alongside the iceberg.
In the engine room, water pours in as a man scrambles past furnace stokers swept across.
ack runs to the starboard railing and watches as the back of the ship moves alongside the iceberg.
Murdoch runs to the bridge and moves a lever, which closes the hydraulic watertight doors in the engine room.
A man motions to the stokers.
Workers run through the rising water and crawl under the lowering doors.
He follows the others thrugh one of the door ways
The door closes, leaving several stokers behind.
As the others escape past closing doors, the remaining stoker dives under the last closing door and falls out as its steel hatch slams shut.
On the bridge, a row of lights blinks on the watertight door indicator panel.
Murdoch stares at the panel, then turns away.
On the passenger deck, a man and a woman lean over the starboard rail and peer at the iceberg.
In the crow's nest, Fleet turns to Lee.
Jack, Rose, and the two men peer over the railing at the iceberg, now behind the ship.
On the bridge, Murdoch addresses Moody.
Moody glances at a wall clock as he exits.
Hichens turns to the bridge door as Captain Smith enters.
Murdoch follows Smith onto the bridge deck.
Smith peers down from the bridge deck shelter, then stands at the bridge railing, overlooking the front well deck.
Murdoch hurries off.
In his cabin, Fabrizio jumps down from his bunk into inch- deep water and turns on the overhead light.
His roommates follow as he opens the door.
Tommy approaches.
The countess steps out of her stateroom and stops a mustached steward.
Andrews hurries past, carrying blueprints.
Outside, smoke rises from the ship's huge funnels as people gather on the decks.
Tommy, Fabrizio, and others follow running rats down a hallway.
Cal and Lovejoy step out of the sitting room and stop a dark-haired steward in the hallway.
The steward hurries off.
On the upper deck, a dark-haired man tosses a blond man a chunk of ice.
He tosses the ice back.
Smith, Moody, Andrews, and Murdoch pass Jack and Rose.
The master-at-arms studies Jack's drawings.
Cal snatches the drawings from him.
Holding hands, Jack and Rose approach Lovejoy, who stands in the hallway.
Lovejoy walks alongside Jack and slips the heart of the ocean into Jack's coat pocket.
Lovejoy follows Rose and Jack into the sitting room.
Cal steps forward.
Cal glances at Lovejoy, who arches his eyebrows.
The steward removes Jack's coat, while the master-at-arms frisks him.
The steward pulls the necklace from the pocket.
Cal takes the necklace.
Cal walks past Rose.
The master-at-arms handcuffs Jack.
Lovejoy passes the coat to the master-at-arms.
The master-at-arms carts Jack away.
In the chartroom, Andrews unrolls the ship's blueprint.
Andrews, Smith, and others study the blueprint.
Andrews stares at the blueprint, then turns to Smith.
Smith glances away with his brow furrowed.
Murdoch swallows hard.
A ship officer enters and stands in a doorway.
Smith turns toward Ismay.
Alone in the sitting room, Cal walks toward Rose.
She blinks, then gazes at him.
Cal stares at her and opens his mouth, as if to speak, then slaps her face.
He grabs her.
The steward enters.
Cal releases Rose.
The steward fetches two life belts.
Stewards open the cabin doors in third class.
Smith writes coordinates.
He hands the message to dark-haired Jack Phillips.
Smith takes off his hat and glances at the door.
Slack-jawed, Phillips stares at Smith.
Smith puts his hat back on and walks out.
Phillips and Bride, a young brown-haired man, exchange glances.
Phillips puts on a headset and sends a telegraph.
On the boat deck, officers supervise and swing them out over the water.
Chief Officer Wilde stands at lifeboat four.
Wilde yells to a man on an upper deck.
Andrews enters the A deck foyer, where dozens of passengers chat and drink as musicians play.
A waiter approaches Andrews with drinks on a tray.
Nearby, Molly Brown stops a brown-haired steward.
Molly passes Cal, Rose, and Ruth.
Ruth turns to her two maids.
The maids leave.
Rose stops Andrews as he wanders past.
Andrews pulls Rose aside.
Cal stands nearby.
Cal leans forward.
Andrews nods and walks off.
Meanwhile, in his office, the master-at-arms handcuffs Jack to a vertical water pipe.
Lovejoy stands nearby.
A dark-haired crewman rushes in.
Lovejoy pulls out a handgun.
As he leaves with the crewman, the master-at-arms hands Lovejoy the handcuff key.
Jack and Lovejoy stare at each other as Lovejoy sits in a desk chair.
On the bridge, Bride runs up to Smith.
Lightoller, a man with short, light brown hair, and Murdoch hurry over to smith
Lightoller glances at Murdoch and rushes to pasengers
Band-leader Wallace Hartley leads the band onto the boat deck.
The band plays.
In steerage, a steward hands out life belts to third-class passengers.
Fabrizio follows Tommy, who grabs a life belt and puts it on.
They stand behind a crowd of passengers on the stairs leading to the main deck.
At the top of the stairs, a steward stands behind a locked gate.
A young brown-haired boy turns to his auburn-haired mother.
The mother glances at her young daughter, who nods.
The two stewards exchange glances.
Murdoch directs sailors lowering lifeboats filled with women and children.
As one of the lifeboats tilts to one side, the passengers on board grimace.
The sailors level the boat and lower it toward the water.
A crewman fires a flare into the night sky.
The passengers on deck, including Rose and Cal, gaze up.
A young blond girl watches the flares and smiles.
The flare explodes into separate fiery streams that fall.
In the master-at-arms' office, Jack looks out through a porthole at the water, which almost reaches the middle of the glass.
Sitting near Jack, Lovejoy places a bullet on a table.
nd shoves the clip into the handgun.
Lovejoy stands.
He punches Jack in the stomach.
Jack winces.
Lovejoy picks up the handcuff key from the table, places it in his breast pocket, and leaves.
Molly Brown helps a brunette woman.
Cal smiles at Lightoller.
Rose watches a tearful woman hug her husband.
Ruth scans the passengers on the lifeboat.
Ruth turns to Rose and smiles.
Rose glares at Cal.
Molly stands in the lifeboat.
Molly helps Ruth into the boat.
Rose's jaw slackens as she stares at Cal.
Cal places Rose's life belt in the boat.
Ruth and Molly reach toward Rose.
Cal gestures.
Rose walks away.
Cal follows and grabs her.
As she steps away, Cal grabs Rose and spins her toward him.
Rose spits in Cal's face and runs off.
The crewmen lower the lifeboat.
In the master-at-arms' office, Jack peers at the water covering the porthole window.
He bangs his handcuffs against the water pipe.
Water floods a staircase and streams down a long corridor leading to the office.
In the first-class corridor, Rose searches for Andrews.
In another corridor, Andrews stops a steward and turns to a brunette woman, a blond maid.
Andrews checks a passenger cabin.
Rose runs to him.
Andrews shakes his head.
In the master-at-arms' office, Jack drops his head.
Water streams in under the door.
Jack climbs up the water pipe near the ceiling and bangs the handcuffs against the pipe.
Elsewhere, Rose bumps into a steward as she runs to an elevator.
As she reaches the elevator, an elevator operator with dark blond hair stops her.
Rose shoves the operator into the elevator.
The operator pushes a lever down as Rose closes the door.
In the office, Jack tries to pull off the handcuffs.
In the elevator, Rose's chest heaves.
The elevator descends into rising water, which pours into the elevator.
Rose opens the elevator doors and steps into a flood corridor.
The operator pulls the lever up.
Water empties out of the elevator as it rises.
Rose watches the elevator ascend, then glances around as she wades through the water
She glances up at a sign over a doorway.
She walks down a short corridor and turns down a long hallway.
In the office, Jack, still handcuffed to the pipe, climbs onto a desk as the water rises.
Rose pauses at a staircase, then turns left and walks down another floated corridor, littered with floating furniture.
The hall lights flicker on and off.
Jack turns toward the closed office door.
Rose turns around.
Rose hurries to the office door.
Rose steps into the office.
Rose kisses Jack.
Rose searches through a cabinet filled with keys.
Rose pulls out a desk drawer.
She turns to Jack.
They exchange smiles.
Rose searches in the drawer.
Meanwhile, the bow of the ship sinks.
Empty-handed, Rose glances around the office.
Rose pushes the desk chair out of her way as she walks to Jack.
She kisses Jack and makes her way out of the office.
Rose moves down the long, dim corridor in waist-deep water.
She climbs upstairs to the D deck and runs down hallways.
A mustached man runs toward Rose.
The man runs away.
Rose gazes down the empty corridor.
She takes a few steps and stops as the lights go out.
Her chest heaves as she leans back against the wall.
The lights turn back on.
Rose stands.
A dark-haired steward rounds the corner.
He pulls her.
She punches him in the face.
He stumbles back and touches his bloody nose.
He hurries away.
Rose leans back against the wall, blinks, then stares ahead.
She steps forward, unwraps a fire hose, and uses it to break the glass on a case containing an axe.
She grabs the axe and runs toward the E deck stairs.
On the bridge, Smith leans over the railing and gazes down at the flooding bow and front well deck.
Meanwhile, Rose descends the E deck stairs and stops above the water, which has risen above several steps.
She steps down into the water, grabs and overhead frame, and ducks her head out into the hallway.
She glances both ways down the flooded hallway, then steps back and hangs the axe on the frame.
She takes off her long sweater and drops it.
She grabs the axe with one hand and wades into the water.
With her free hand, she grasps a long pipe running along the ceiling, propelling herself down the hallway.
She holds the axe over her head and walks through the chest -deep water into the office.
She holds out the axe.
Jack stretches the chain connecting the handcuffs out on the water pipe.
Rose lifts the axe.
Rose walks to the wooden cabinet, swings the axe and strikes the cabinet door.
Rose swings the ax and hits the cabinet door, missing the first mark by several inches.
She approaches Jack.
Rose grips the axe handle with both hands.
She moves her hands apart.
Jack stretches the chain across the pipe and closes his eyes.
Rose closes her eyes, swings, and cuts the handcuff chain in half.
Jack lifts his hands and smiles.
They move into the corridor.
Rose points to the flooded stairway.
Jack pulls her toward the opposite end of the corridor.
Outside, passengers paddle two lifeboats away from the Titanic.
In one lifeboat, Molly and Ruth stare at the ship, now tilted forward with its bow nearly submerged.
A flare shoots up from the bridge deck and explodes.
On the boat deck, passengers crowd around the remaining lifeboats.
As Lightoller seats people in the lifeboat, one woman toting luggage tries to climb aboard.
Lightoller pulls a sobbing gray-haired woman away from her husband.
Lightoller puts her in the boat.
An auburn-haired woman cries and kisses a brown-haired man.
Cal turns toward Lovejoy as he approaches.
Rose follows Jack, who uses the axe to break through the door and into the corridor.
A steward addresses them.
The steward follows Jack and Rose.
Jack and Rose glance back.
The steward stops in his tracks.
Lightoller picks up a woman and places her in a boat.
Andrews rushes over.
Lightoller gazes out at several partially filled lifeboats moving away from the Titanic and motions to waiting passengers.
Several full lifeboats are lowered to the water.
Fabrizio and other passengers pop open the third-class gangway door and peer out along the ship.
Two seamen pull the passengers back in and close the door.
Tommy and others stand at the locked gate atop the third- class stairwell.
Two stewards unlock the gate.
A woman and several men rush through the open gate.
The stewards push back the men, punch them, and hit them with axe handles.
One steward pulls out a small handgun and points it at the crowd now contained behind the closed gate.
Jack and Rose reach the bottom of the third-class stairs.
Atop the stairs, Tommy grips the gate and glares at the armed steward.
Tommy glowers and points at the steward, then runs downstairs.
Fabrizio rushes over.
Jack hugs him.
In the suite, Cal removes the heart of the ocean, along with some cash, from the safe and puts it in his jacket pocket.
He glances at Lovejoy.
Lovejoy opens his jacket, revealing a handgun in a shoulder holster.
Cal closes the safe, locks it, and walks out.
Elsewhere, Jack and the others run along a crowded corridor.
Jack leads them down another corridor.
They pass a mustached man flipping through a book and studying a sign on the wall.
Jack leads Rose and his friends down another corridor and up a stairway to another locked gate.
At the top, a steward addresses a small crowd from behind a locked gate.
Jack grabs the gate and shakes it.
Jack rushes over and pulls on a wooden bench nailed to the floor.
Fabrizio and Tommy help Jack pull up the bench.
They charge forward and ram the gate.
They ram the gate again.
Jack, Rose, and other passengers pass the steward.
Tommy punches the steward.
On the boat deck, passengers swarm around the remaining lifeboats.
Lightoller pushes away a group of men.
A man knocks a woman off the deck.
He grabs onto the side of the lifeboat and dangles high above.
A sailor pulls the woman on deck.
Lightoller lifts a revolver.
He waves the gun at the group of men.
He turns toward a young sailor.
Lightoller loads his revolver, while Lowe boards the lifeboat.
On the other side of the ship, Cal and Lovejoy peer down as Murdoch supervises the lowering of a lifeboat.
Cal and Lovejoy peer down the side of the ship.
Below, one lifeboat is lowered onto another lifeboat sitting in the water but unable to detach.
In the lower lifeboat, a man labors to cut the ropes connecting the two boats.
On the other side of the ship, Lowe stands in a lifeboat as it is lowered.
He waves his revolver at men on the decks as they try to jump into the boat.
Cal and Lovejoy turn as Lowe fires his gun in the air.
Cal follows Murdoch toward the bow.
Meanwhile, Jack, Rose, Fabrizio, and Tommy arrive on the upper deck.
They run to the side of the ship.
Jack stands up on the railing and gazes toward the bow.
As he steps down, Rose stops the mustached Colonel Gracie.
Jack, Rose, and the others run toward the bow.
Meanwhile, as the band plays on deck, a passenger bumps into one of the violinists.
Hartley's brow furrows.
As the band resumes playing, Jack, Rose, Fabrizio, and Tommy run past.
Elsewhere, Murdoch and several seamen load a small boat
Murdoch glances around, then turns to a sailor.
Cal slips money into Murdoch's pocket
Murdoch glances down at the cash, then exchanges looks with Cal and walks off.
On the port side, Lightoller loads passengers into a boat.
Lightoller shoots into the sky.
In the crowd, Jack turns to Tommy.
Tommy moves off through the crowd.
Meanwhile, Lovejoy approaches Cal, who stands beside the small boat, called a collapsible.
Cal glances away.
Murdoch turns to Cal and Lovejoy, while Ismay helps load the collapsible.
Cal stares at the collapsible, then blinks.
Cal turns and walks off.
Lovejoy scowls.
Lovejoy follows Cal, who walks through the bridge.
Cal and Lovejoy brush past an officer.
Meanwhile, Ismay stands by the collapsible.
Ismay glances at a crowd of passengers on the lower side of the bridge, then turns back toward the collapsible.
While Murdoch turns away, Ismay slips into a seat on the collapsible.
Murdoch faces the collapsible and finds himself staring at his mate, who gazes ahead.
Motioning downward with both arms, Murdoch glowers at his mate.
The seamen lower the collapsible.
As the collapsible drops below the deck, Ismay glances up.
Lightoller grabs a young girl and places her in a lifeboat.
Rose turns to Jack.
Cal glances from Jack to Rose.
Cal pulls off the blanket Rose is wrapped in and shoves it at Jack.
Cal removes his own coat and places it around Rose's shoulders.
He starts to caress Rose's hair, but she backs away from him.
Jack steps up to her.
The crewman grabs Rose and guides her toward the lifeboat.
Jack and another crew member help Rose climb into the boat.
Rose turns and grasps Jack's outstretched hand.
The crewman pushes Jack back.
The lifeboat jerks.
Standing at the rail, Cal and Jack gaze at Rose as the lifeboat lowers toward the water.
Rose stares back at Jack.
Jack looks from Cal to the descending boat.
Rose looks around herself, then up at the ropes running through the pulleys.
She gazes back at Jack.
Rose looks to her right, where the young girl waves to her father while her sister cries.
On deck, another crew member with both arms raised out at his sides yells orders.
Rose gazes back up at Jack, who still stands next to Cal.
In the dark sky above them, another flare shoots, then dissipates.
The light briefly illuminates Rose's face.
More streaking flares cascade in the sky above Jack.
Suddenly, Rose steps to the edge of the lifeboat.
Rose leaps from the boat and hangs from the ship's rail, several decks below Jack.
Two crew members pull her on board.
Rose runs along the deck.
Jack turns, then runs along the main deck, past passengers and crew members.
Rose runs along the lower deck.
Jack rushes inside, then runs down the grand staircase.
At the bottom of the stairs, Rose runs into his arms.
They embrace.
They kiss.
They kiss, then hug.
Cal gazes down at them from an upper landing.
Stepping up to him, Lovejoy glances down, then grabs Cal's shoulder and pulls him away.
As they step away from the railing, Cal grabs Lovejoy's gun from its holster, then runs toward the stairs.
He pulls Rose away.
Rose and Jack flee.
Cal tears down the stairs after them.
Cal steps on a piece of broken banister and falls.
He stands, picks up the gun, and runs after them.
Jack and Rose run to the bottom of the staircase.
Cal aims but doesn't fire.
He knocks a man out of his way, then shoots again.
Jack and Rose run down another staircase, then jump into waist-high water.
Cal runs into the water.
Jack and Rose hurry into the dining room.
Cal aims, but the gun is empty.
Cal looks around himself at the rising water.
Jack and Rose run through the dining room.
Cal climbs several steps, then stops.
He chuckles to himself as Lovejoy appears.
Rose and Jack run down a passageway.
They turn, then run down more stairs.
Stopping, Jack presses his finger to his mouth.
In the dining room, a glass door swings slowly through the water.
Small waves push plates and silverware, as rising water covers the tables and chairs.
Rose and Jack step into another passageway.
At the far end, a small boy stands against a wall.
Water pours down the steps, and then they run towards the boy.
Sparks shoot from an overhead pipe.
Jack picks up the boy, then watches as water shoots in from cracks.
They turn and run back up the passageway.
They stop as water rushes into the passageway ahead of them.
As they run in the opposite direction, a man, the boy's father, steps into the hall.
The man grabs the boy from Jack, then knocks Jack against a wall.
The man runs off with the boy, and Jack and Rose run after him.
The man picks up a suitcase, then gapes at the door, which bursts.
Water rushes in, knocking the man over.
Water rushes after them as they run down the passageway.
A wave knocks them over, and rushing water carries them away
water pours around them as lights flicker.
Jack struggles against the current toward a stairwell.
They pull themselves along a wall toward the stairwell.
Jack pushes Rose through the shoulder-high water toward the railing.
Rose grabs the railings and climbs to another locked gate
Jack shakes the gate as the water rises below them.
The water reaches their feet.
A steward runs past them.
The steward returns for them.
He tries several keys in the lock, as water swirls around them.
The water reaches their thighs.
Sparks shoot nearby.
The steward fumbles with the keys.
and then Drops underwater.
Holding onto the grate with one hand, he reaches for the keys.
Jack grabs the keys, then resurfaces.
Jack reaches around the grate with the key, but misses the lock.
He slips the key into the lock.
He turns the key.
Rose opens the gate.
She swims across the water which nearly reaches the ceiling.
She stops at the stairs, then turns.
He swims to the stairs and they both climb.
At the head of a crowd, Tommy and Fabrizio hop over a barrier.
Crew members lift the lifeboat onto long oars set up like a ramp.
eaching to the deck, Murdoch rushes to a stairwell and stares down the churning water.
Cal runs through a doorway.
A man knocks him into a running crowd.
cals turns and runs with the others, then stops.
He climbs a platform and peers over the crowd.
Cal peers down at a crying young girl, then walks away.
Inside, Rose and Jack run up a staircase.
A man falls into the water, another dangles from the rope
Cal approaches.
Murdoch pulls money from his pocket and flings it at Cal.
Murdoch pushes Cal.
A man leaps toward the lifeboat.
Murdoch shoots at him.
A man pushes Tommy forward.
Murdoch shoots Tommy.
Fabrizio kneels by Tommy.
Murdoch gazes downward and steps back toward the edge of the ship.
He looks to his right, then at the crowd of passengers.
Cal glares at Murdoch.
Murdoch stands at attention and salutes, then holds the gun to his own head.
He fires and falls into the ocean.
Cal turned and then runs to the crowd.
On the other side of the ship, crew members tip another lifeboat onto the deck below.
Cal picks up a crying girl, then steps toward the crowd of passengers.
Cal hurries forward.
Cal hands the girl to a woman, climbs into the lifeboat, and sits.
The woman hands the girl to Cal.
Jack and Rose run for the smoking room.
Andrews stands by the fireplace, gazing at a painting.
Andrews gives Rose his lifebelt.
She hugs Andrews.
Rose hurries through a revolving door.
Jack glances back, nods, then follows Rose.
Elsewhere, a steward, holding two life belts hurries toward the Grand Staircase.
Outside, a sailor rotates a winch as others work to turn over the top of the lifeboat.
Captain Smith watches, then turns as a man wades through shallow water on deck.
A woman holding a baby approaches the captain.
Captain Smith stares at her, then turns and steps away.
A man with a lifebelt runs up to the captain.
The captain stops, glances at the lifebelt, then walks off.
Knee-deep in water, he steps onto the bridge.
Captain Smith gazes at a ship's wheel and various instruments, then steps into the wheelhouse and shuts the door.
The string quartet finishes playing.
Carrying their instruments, three of the quartet members walk away as people run past.
Hartley, the violin player, places his instrument against his neck and resumes playing.
A viola player glances back, then returns and joins him.
The bass player carries his bass back, then stands on the other side of Hartley.
The cello player also returns.
Captain Smith stares across the wheelhouse.
He gazes through a windows at the rising water, then places on hand on the helm.
Water pours in beneath the door.
In the smoking room, Andrews his pocket watch as the glass slides off the mantel.
He opens the clock on the mantel and adjusts the time.
He shuts the clock, then leans against the mantel, gazing downward.
An elderly couple lies in bed as water streams beneath them.
The man kisses the woman.
A red-haired woman leans over two young children lying a bed.
The children sleep.
Elsewhere, a Degas painting of a woman wearing a long tutu floats beneath water.
On deck, people run past the band.
People scramble about.
Fabrizio unties the lifebelt on Tommy's body.
People rush away from the rising water.
The girl in Cal's arms looks around herself, wide-eyed.
People work to right the overturned lifeboat.
One sailor slides down a rope.
Fabrizio puts on the lifebelt as water surges around him.
Water rushes over the listing ship, causing some people to fall into the water.
Fabrizio opens the knife and Cal backs away from the rushing water
Fabrizio and others tried to cut the ropes
Inside, people slip and fall near the Grand Staircase.
Guggenheim, wearing a top hat and formal wear.sits in a chair, watching with wide eyes.
Outside, people fall into the water others run up the deck from the approaching water.
In the wheelhouse, Smith stares wide-eyed as water covers the glass windows.
Outside, on one of the decks, passengers wade through waist -deep water toward the lifeboat in the middle of the ship.
Fabrizio slices through the rope with his pocket knife, partially freeing the boat, but causing it to tip onto its side.
Cal climbs onto the high side of the capsizing lifeboat.
Railings will pull themselves onto pieces of floating debris.
Several people run toward the backend of the Titanic, which is now tilted up at a slight angle.
Some passengers hang from ropes or leap into the icy sea.
Jack and Rose make their way to a railing near the rear of the ship and turned back
Jack grabs Rose's hand and runs through the crowed
They made their way to the crowd.
Water swamps the base of the first funnel as it sinks below the ocean's surface.
Inside the ship, sea water floods the grand staircase.
Passengers and crew grab onto anything they can as the water rises.
Jack climbs over a railing and helps Rose climb over.
They drop onto the deck below.
Meanwhile, inside the ship, tables and chairs batter swimming passengers.
As the water rises, some are carried up the staircase while others are trapped against the ceiling of the room below.
The ornately carved wall clock at the top of the staircase sinks beneath the churning water.
As sea water pours into the openings passengers back into the sinking ship.
Wearing a life vest, Fabrizio swims past one of the broken window suction slams against the side of the ship, but he braces himself against the windowed frame.
He reaches up for a railing but slips.
He turns and swims toward open water.
Meanwhile, Rose drops onto a lower deck.
The ship's baker helps her up.
Jack and Rose reunite in the crowd.
In one of the lifeboats Cal beats off panicked passengers with an oar.
Several cables holding a funnel snap and flail against water like whips.
Cal's eyes widen as the huge funnel tips over.
Swimming in the water with several others, Fabrizio looks up as the giant funnel falls onto him.
It's a wave which washes away several people.
A man climbs into Cal's lifeboat but Cal pushes him back into the ocean.
Jack and Rose continue to fight their way through the crowd which slowly funnels up another staircase.
Inside people cling to columns at the top of the grand staircase.
ater surges up an empty corridor, splintering furniture and knocking doors off.
Some people in a lifeboat behind the Titanic row furiously as the ship's enormous propellers rise out of the water.
Some passengers leap off from the back of Titanic which is now tilted up several stories above the ocean surface.
Gripping Rose's hand, Jack leaps through the crowd.
They move to a railing and watch as several passengers plunge overboard.
Jack and Rose continue on, pressing passed a group of people kneeling around a priest.
A few dozen people tread water near the propeller
Jack pulls up towards deck which is now slanted at a forty five degree angle.
They grab onto the railing at the exact spot they first met.
Water streams down the exposed propellers as they continue to tilt upward.
Kneeling people grab one of the priest's hands as he holds onto a cab stand or rotating shaft with his other hand
Beside Jack and Rose a woman hugs a young boy to her chest.
Shivering, Rose clings to Jack as she looks down at the sinking ship.
Her breath smokes in the cold air.
Rose smiles.
Jack hugs her tight and kisses her forehead.
Inside a submerged portion of the ship, a woman's lifeless body drifts beneath a large chandelier, her gauzy dress billowing in the water.
Stacks of plates slide off the shelves and smash on the floor.
A life boat flow people away from the part of the ship which rises several stories into night sky.
People slide down the slanted deck.
Jack's eyes widen as he watches people and deck chairs smashed with each other
A brunette woman slips out of a man's grasp and slides on the deck on her stomach.
All along the Titanic people dangle from ropes, spill from railings or slide down into the ocean.
More people climb over the railing at the back of the ship.
One man jumps and free falls into the icy water where small groups of survivors cling to floating debris.
Standing at the rear railing, the black haired baker watches a falling man bounce off of one of the giant propellers and cartwheel into the sea.
The baker pulls a flask out of his pocket and takes a drink.
Jack wraps his arms around Rose as she grips onto the railing.
Sitting beside Molly in a lifeboat, Ruth's eyes are glassy as she watches from a distance.
Also in a lifeboat Ismay turns away from the carnage and squeezes his eyes shut.
A crewman reaches towards a sparking circuit breaker.
A shock flings him.
All along the Titanic electric lights flicker then go out.
As the rear of the ship continues to tilled upward
Blood streaming down his forehead, Lovejoy grips a side railing as it splits apart
Inside the ship a ceiling collapses as several support columns failed
Small explosions shoot flames from portholes.
A pair of men slides into the widening chasm.
The mighty ship snaps in half, sending the rear of the boat plunging back toward the sea
The back of the Titanic slaps down on the ocean surface crushing dozens.
The last of the funnels topples over as water rushes into the gap between the two sections, which are still joined at the bottom
The Titanic rapidly fills with water and sinks.
Jack climbs over the railing at the back of the ship as it tilled sky over rapidly
Passengers manage to scramble over the railing.
Sheets of water grimmer in the moon light which rises up from the ocean.
People dangling from railings lose their grips and fall.
One man bounces off a cab stand before slamming into other people hanging on below, creating a domino effect of falling bodies.
A blonde maid dangles from the railing near Rose, who looks into the young woman's eyes as she loses her grip and falls.
Her breath visible in the cold air, Rose turns toward the baker who crouches on the railing beside her.
He returns her silent gaze.
The entire ship sinks.
Air pressure blows water out of compartments.
The ocean roils around the ship as it sinks deeper.
Dozens of passengers still dangle from poles or lie against railings and staircases.
Jack keeps one arm wrapped around Rose as they descend toward the water.
One man slips off a pole and spins as he bounces off a railing.
Some people behind the ship try to swim as the massive propellers sink below the surface.
Jack and Rose hold hands as they kneel beside one another.
Rose nods as the bubbling water covers the tail rudder and surges up the whole deck
Waves swell around the name Titanic and across the ship
Deep gulps of air as the tail end of the ship sinks beneath the surface.
Under water, Jack and Rose hold hands as they tumble in the jostling current.
the ship sinks and vanishes
Jack grabs onto Rose's life vest but is swept away by the turbulence.
Rose kicks to the surface and emerges amid other flailing survivors.
For at least a quarter mile the ocean churns with panicked swimmers.
Out of their grasps, one man grabs onto Rose and shoves her underwater as he tries to climb on top of her.
Jack punches the hysterical man in the face until he releases Rose.
Jack Pulls Rose by her life vest.
They swim out of the mass of survivors.
Jack leads her to a flat piece of wood floating on the surface.
Rose pulls herself onto the elaborately carved panel.
Jack tries to pull himself onto the panel as well, but it tips under their combined weight.
Jack holds onto the panel as he floats in the water beside her.
Jack looks down, then blinks and nods to himself.
Lying on her stomach on the panel, Rose moves toward Jack and leans her forehead against his face
Their breath is visible in the cold air.
He takes her hand.
Clinging to a nearby piece of debris, a crewman blows into a whistle.
Rose's blue lips tremble as she smiles weakly.
Sitting in a lifeboat beside Molly, Ruth closes her eyes.
Furrowing her brow, Molly looks around at the other people in the boat who avert their gaze.
A young woman sobs.
Molly glares at the crewman then sits.
Beside her Ruth presses hands over her own ears.
Elsewhere, survivors in four lifeboats work to lash the vessels together.
A dark haired crewman supervising the operation glances back toward the site of the wreck.
Still clinging to wreckage, the crewman with the whistle in his mouth floats motionless with his eyes closed.
Swimming a few yards away, Jack stares at the man, then turns toward Rose.
Rose's lips tremble as she stares at Jack.
Ice crystals sparkle in Jack's hair as he takes her hand.
He kisses the back of her hand.
Jack smiles, then closes his eyes and winces.
Rose closes her eyes and leans her head against their entwined hands.
As one lifeboat returns to the site of the wreck, the dark haired crewman shines his flashlight over the debris strewn water.
Frozen bodies float amid pieces of furniture, barrels and other wreckage.
Using an oar the crewman prods several stiff corpses.
Leaning over the front of the boat, a sailor pushes bodies out of their path as they row forward slowly.
The crewman's flashlight beam illuminates a dead woman and infant floating in the water.
Elsewhere in the debris field Rose lies on her back atop the floating wooden panel.
Jack floats in the sea beside her, his head and arms propped above water.
Rose sings to herself as she gazes up at the starry night sky.
Her hair and eyebrows caked with ice, Rose turns her head as a distant light illuminates the side of her face.
The lifeboat passes several yards away from her.
She shakes Jack's hand.
Smiling, Rose rubs Jack's arm and sits up.
He floats motionless with his eyes closed.
She shakes him harder, then gazes toward the lifeboat.
Between them, the dead crewman floats with the whistle still in his mouth.
Rose's smile fades as she stares at Jack.
She shakes him again.
A tear trickles down her nose.
Furrowing her brow, Rose chokes back tears as she strokes Jack's hand.
The lifeboat rows further away.
Rose trembles as she watches it recede.
She lays down her head and closes her eyes.
The light of the rescuers' flashlight grow dimmer as they move on.
Rose's eyes pop open.
She sits up.
Rose pries her hand out of Jack's grip.
She kisses his hand, then releases him.
Jack sinks in the icy water and vanishes in the gloom.
Rose slides on her stomach to the edge of the platform, then rolls into the water.
Her breath steaming out in clouds, Rose swims to the frozen crewman and pulls the whistle from his lips.
Rose continues to blow into the whistle as the rescuers shine their lights on her.
On the research ship, the now older Rose opens her eyes.
Tears steam down Lizzy's face.
As dawn break over the ocean, Ismay sits silently in a lifeboat with other survivors.
In another boat, a man takes a takes a drink from a flask, then passes it to Cal.
Elsewhere, Ruth huddles against Molly, who steers out to see with a blank expression.
Wrapped in a blanket, her face pale, she looks up as she is dazed in green light.
Below The sky along the horizon, lifeboats row toward a waiting ship anchored amid floating icebergs.
Rose opens her eyes as they row up alongside the ship Carpathia.
Later, Titanic survivors recover on one of the ships lower decks as nurses and crewmen flit amongst them.
Still dressed in a tuxedo, Cal walks down a staircase onto the lower deck.
Cal brushes past a man and walks into the survivors.
Rose sits on a bench with a blanket wrapped around her, hooding her hair and head.
She glances up at Cal's back as he surveys the passengers.
Rose looks away as he turns toward her.
She closes her eyes as Cal paces behind her.
Rose peers sideways at Cal as he walks away.
Her hair wet and stringy, Rose stands in pouring rain on the deck of the ship.
She stares up at the Statue of Liberty, the torch and crown glowing in the night.
A ship's crewman holding a clipboard steps up to Rose.
Rose continues to stare up at the giant statue as the crewman moves on.
Lizzy smiles.
On the ocean floor, the two submersibles shine their lights on the Titanic's remains.
The submersibles rise, leaving the wreck and darkness.
At the surface, crewmen work to recover the submersibles.
Standing with Lizzy on the research, Brock sniffs a cigar, then throws it into the water.
Staring at Brock, Lizzy smiles and shakes her he head.
He turns and watches lights glint off the surface of rolling waves.
Later that night, wearing only a nightgown, across the desolate deck, her loose white hair blows in the wind
Clutching her hands over her heart, Rose walks to a railing at the back of the ship.
She grips the railing with one hand, and then pulls herself up onto the bottom rung.
She stares down into the water.
She unclasps her left hand, revealing the Heart of the Ocean.
The large heart-shaped blue diamond glints in the moonlight.
On the deck of the Carpathia, young Rose stands in the rain and stares at the Statue of Liberty.
Frowning, she looks down and pulls the Heart of the Ocean out of her jacket pocket.
Back on the deck of the Keldysh, Rose tosses the diamond necklace into the sea.
As the necklace sinks, Rose smiles and exhales deeply.
The necklace twirls down to the dark ocean depths.
Later, Rose sleeps in her berth beside her collection of framed photographs.
In one picture, Rose stands beside a large fish.
In another, she sits on an elephant's back.
In a third, Rose wears a long scarf around her neck as she poses beside a biplane.
In another, Rose smiles to stride a horse.
Rose lies in her bed with her eyes closed.
Beyond the wall behind her, deep below the ocean surface, the broken Titanic lies on the sea floor.
Sediment rains down like snow over the wreck, which appears covered in a layer of grayish ash.
A beam lies across her severed hulls, split open to reveal a ghostly corridor littered with debri
Bright light suddenly shines from within the Titanic and illuminates the corridor, now restored to its former glory.
Lounge chairs line a deck of polished wood.
A man in a black suit bows as he opens the door leading to the grand staircase.
Inside, passengers and crew members stand together and smile.
A curly-haired girl waves from her father's arms.
Standing at the bottom of the stairs, Mr. Andrews nods and then moves aside.
At the top of the stairs, Jack, wearing his trousers held up by suspenders, stands and stares at the wall clock.
He turns and smiles, then extends his hand.
Wearing a sparkling white gown and choker, young Rose beams as she takes Jack's hand.
They look into each other's eyes and kiss, as everyone applauds.
Bright white light shines down on them through the dome skylight.
A crescent moon drifting amid clouds is reflected in still water.
A fisherman's float plops onto the surface creating a ring around it.
On the curve of the crescent moon, a boy lounges with his fishing rod.
A somber-looking black woman in her turns to face the camera.
The woman puts aside a cooking pot.
The maid nods with a smile and a long, penetrating gaze.
The smile vanishes.
Her eyes move across the room, settling on a framed photo, on the facing wall, of a young, black, graduate student.
She looks away.
she lifts the baby out of her cot.
She wraps her arms around the little girl.
In a wig and a pale, blue and white uniform, she walks to the bus stop.
She pats the childs tommy.
The hem looks uneven.
A young redhead at the wheel of a blue convertible Cadillac speeds along a dirt track bisecting a wide field.
Clouds of dust trailing behind her.
Ring lettered Skeeter drives along with a look of determined optimism.
She pulls in at a gas station and waits as a black attendant cleans her windscreen.
A flag flutters on the roof of the substantial offices of the Jackson Journal.
Down in the street, Skeeter pulls up outside the main entrance.
She strides confidently through the glass fronted door.
A cigarette smoking receptionist leads the way through the sprawling open plan office to the editor's office, where a short, middle aged man is dwarfed by his big desk.
He points to Skeeter.
Eugenia Phelan, AKA Skeeter, hands over her resume.
He stretches for a folder.
Skeeter, carrying a basket of readers' letters, comes out of Blackly's office with a happy smile.
At her home, a well groomed brunette in a flowery, sleeveless, 'style dress pulls out a length of toilet paper and marks it with dots.
Minnie, a stout, well-cushioned maid, trots to the bottom of the stairs and shouts up.
Minnie, carrying a pie, follows the ladies to their car.
Aibileen Clark, the narrator, is garnishing a dish with grapes.
Elizabeth Leefolt looks through her front curtains and then nods to Aibileen, who slides the chicken dish over a crack in the veneer of the dining table.
In the bathroom, she squats in front of moon-faced Mae Mobley, who's sitting on a child's toilet seat.
Elizabeth scoops up her daughter.
Hilly sashays into the sitting room.
Hilly beams at her girlfriends.
Minnie joins Aibileen in the kitchen and makes a beeline for a dish of deviled eggs.
Minnie bites into an egg.
Minnie picks up a tray and a TV set, which she carries off towards the lounge.
Aibileen picks up the cord that Minnie is trailing behind her.
Mrs. Walters watches TV as she has her lunch.
Skeeter arrives.
Skeeter joins the young women.
She hugs Elizabeth,
And now she hugs Hilly.
Hilly bites her lip.
The bridge is now in full swing, with Skeeter playing with Hilly, Elizabeth, and Jolene.
Hilly kicks Jolene with her stilettoed foot and smiles blithely.
Skeeter goes on.
Skeeter lowers her eyes awkwardly.
In the kitchen, Aibileen answers the phone.
As platinum blonde Celia, in a yellow playsuit, rings off, her husband creeps up behind her.
He nuzzles her neck and bends her backwards by the edge of their swimming pool.
Mrs. Walters has dropped off in front of the TV.
As Aibileen goes to take her plate, she takes another mouthful.
Skeeter smiles at Aibileen, who is replenishing the ladies' glasses.
Elizabeth notices Hilly squirming.
Aibileen listens passively.
Skeeter watches Aibileen.
Aibileen has heard every word.
Skeeter looks down at her lap.
Later, Hilly and her friends are standing by their cars.
Skeeter is inside, watching them through a window.
She wanders across to Aibileen, who is clearing up.
Aibileen looks across, with the same passive expression as before.
Skeeter's attention is drawn to the voice on the TV.
She hands Skeeter a piece of paper.
Elizabeth gives her a thin, cool, smile.
Skeeter pulls up outside a columned portico two-story house.
With her jacket over her arm and her briefcase in the other, she walks past a black servant trimming a box hedge at the front entrance.
She hurries into the hall and up a wide, wooden staircase.
Mother is sitting at her dressing table in an evening dress and an elfin brown wig.
Her mother, Charlotte, with a cigarette in one hand, scoots off to the bathroom, pulling off the wig, next to several wigs on stands.
Grimly, she eyes her own limp and thin hair in the mirror.
Skeeter slumps down on a sofa, looking annoyed.
Charlotte comes out in a brown bob.
She waits for Skeeter's approval.
She steps out of the green dress.
Skeeter scowls at her reflection.
Her mother zips her up roughly.
Charlotte sits Skeeter down.
At dinner, Charlotte pats Carlton's hand.
Robert Phelan takes a sip of bourbon.
Across the table, Charlotte looks awkward.
Carlton, wearing a stiff smile, glances from one parent to the other.
Skeeter fixes her eyes on her mother, who is concentrating on her soup.
As Skeeter storms away from the table, Phelan frowns lamely.
His tall, angular wife pats him on the shoulder and leaves the room.
Skeeter, striding down a pathway, stops, the sun outlining her long, ringleted hair.
She gazes mournfully at a stone bench under a weeping willow tree.
In her mind's eye, she sees herself as a young, teenage girl sitting morosely on the bench.
A petite black woman with long plaits comes towards her, passing beneath the long, wispy branches of the willow.
The black woman, Constantine, smiles at her warmly as she sits down next to her.
Constantine grips Skeeter by the hand, bringing a grateful smile to her face.
Skeeter nods, with tears in her eyes.
They walk out of the willow glade.
Constantine slaps an arm around Skeeter's shoulders.
Skeeter walks back the same way she came, with a more relaxed pace, a thoughtful look on her face.
Later, she's on the phone.
Charlotte has traced the phone flex to the kitchen.
Elegant, slim Ms. Elaine Stein is still on the phone.
Skeeter replaces the receiver, grinning as if she'd just won the jackpot.
Hilly's on Elizabeth's back porch, with a contractor.
Aibileen glances up at a windy sky.
Skeeter waits for Hilly to drive away and then looks pointedly at Aibileen.
She hurries in with the laundry basket.
They come into Elizabeth's kitchen.
Elizabeth's husband, Raleigh, sees Skeeter sitting with Aibileen.
Aibileen gets up from sorting the washing.
Black storm clouds release heavy rain on Jackson.
At Hilly's house, Minnie is fanning Mrs. Walters with a newspaper.
She and Minnie glance towards the window and the storm raging outside.
Mrs. Walters sits up her in chair, in awe.
Mrs. Walters fixes Minnie with a look of confused comprehension.
Hilly, who has been lighting candles on the dining table, sits fanning herself.
Minnie puts down the paper and sidles to the window, looking out over the terrace and the outdoor toilet beyond it.
She sees a sun chair being buffeted in the wind.
Minnie shifts awkwardly from foot to foot.
The pool umbrella has gone the way of the chair.
Minnie beats a hasty retreat.
Mrs. Walters lays out some cards.
Her daughter's eyes narrow as she watches Minnie disappear down the hall.
In the bathroom, as Minnie softly raises the toilet lid, Hilly puts her ear to the bathroom door.
Minnie, caught with her knickers down, freezes.
Defiantly, Minnie flushes the toilet.
Minnie stands with her arms folded, then slams down the lid.
Mrs. Walters looks up from her cards without expression.
Minnie, carrying her handbag, strides out of the front door, into the pouring rain.
A child's bedroom turned upside down.
Aibileen sits with Mae Mobley on her lap, sheltering under an upturned mattress.
In Elizabeth's sprawling bungalow the next day, Aibileen, in her maid's uniform, is sitting on the toilet.
Flies buzz around her.
She brings a hand to her mouth, her face perspiring, her expression world-weary.
Elizabeth, holding Mae Mobley's hand, stands outside the wooden toilet, on the back porch.
Aibileen picks the child up.
Aibileen shuts the toilet door with her free hand.
Elizabeth waves to Mae Mobley and drives off.
The little girl strokes Aibileen's cheek.
Smiling softly, Aibileen kisses her on the cheek.
They hug each other fondly.
At a bus stop, several maids from the locality are climbing aboard.
Minnie, in a green straw hat and spotty dress and carrying a pie and a fan, peers out from the door of an empty bus.
Seeing the coast is clear, she gets out.
Yule Mae, standing next to Aibileen, spots her.
Minnie looks nonchalant.
Skeeter strides up.
Aibileen glances behind her at the bus door closing.
She watches it drive off with a doom-laden look on her face.
A white mother pushing a pram slows down as she passes.
Aibileen takes the slip of paper.
Aibileen trudges off.
Skeeter studies a State of Mississippi pamphlet on the conduct of non-white and other minorities.
Aibileen's voice reads the words.
Aibileen answers.
Minnie with her pie rings Hilly's doorbell.
Hilly eyes the pie and loftily indicates she should wait.
Minnie's face stiffens.
She sinks to the floor.
Aibileen rings off.
Her eyes lighting on the paper with Skeeter's number propped up on the phone.
In a church young Preacher Green invites the choir to stand.
Aibileen thinks on his words.
Later at home Aibileen hurries to the door.
She ushers Skeeter in.
She invites Skeeter to follow her to the sitting room of her spotless little house.
Skeeter sits down on the sofa and unties the headscarf she's wearing.
Aibileen stays standing.
Aibileen in a yellow dress with elbow length sleeves and a scalloped detail down the front purses her lips with a faint sigh.
Visibly nervous she pours tea from a white china pot into a china cup spilling a drop on the saucer.
A silver spoon on a white napkin is set next to the cup and there's also a plate of jam tarts.
As Skeeter takes hold of the cup Aibileen hastily wipes up the spill in the saucer.
Smoothing the back of her dress Aibileen sits on the arm of an easy chair facing Skeeter.
Skeeter at the kitchen table reads from a list of questions.
Aibileen looks mournfully at the photograph of the graduate student.
Skeeter follows her gaze.
Aibileen turns away to face the window, blanked out by the strong sun outside.
Aibileen puts down the cutlery she's holding and nods mutely.
Aibileen seems to be conducting an internal dialogue with herself.
Skeeter carefully considers the proposal.
Aibileen produces a notebook and her reading glasses.
She stands in front of Skeeter with the notebook open in her hands.
Cracking a brief smile, she sits back down.
They stifle their giggles
Sometime later Skeeter puts her notes in her briefcase.
At the Holbrooks', Hilly with her hair in curling clips is scowling at the newspaper.
Her eyes shoot up at Yule Mae who is clearing away some dishes.
Yule Mae goes towards the kitchen, then stops and puts the plates back down.
William and Hilly both lower their newspapers.
William glances at his watch.
He pecks his wife on the cheek and goes.
Yule Mae picks up the plates.
With a supercilious smile, Hilly picks up her paper.
Chubby faced Sugar who towers above Minnie listens obediently.
Sugar gets on the bus leaving Minnie behind.
Minnie gets on another bus.
He deposits her outside a set of gates and a long drive beyond.
Minnie walks up the drive towards an imposing white painted mansion.
Celia bursts barefoot through the door with a cheery wave.
Minnie walks towards her.
Long and slender Celia puts on her stilettos in the hall.
Minnie points to a mark on Celia's cheek.
She drags Minnie into the state-of-the-art kitchen.
Minnie looks at the messy kitchen table.
Celia coyly touches her slender waist.
Minnie shrugs a yes.
Celia hugs her.
She ushers Minnie into the house, swigging from a bottle of cola.
Celia sinks down on a chair like a naughty child.
She swigs some more Coke.
At the Holbrooks', Hilly is addressing a meeting of the junior league.
Skeeter is sitting near the back.
Hilly dismisses Mary Beth with a wave of her hand.
Skeeter sits back down with a blind smile.
Later, Skeeter pulls up outside Brent's Drug Store Diner and hurries in carrying her briefcase.
Elizabeth and Hilly are already sitting in a booth.
With a knowing smile Hilly command Elizabeth to budge up.
Elizabeth slides a milkshake in front of Skeeter.
Hilly's face softens.
Hilly and Elizabeth smile conspiratorially.
Skeeter gives Hilly a long look.
She forces a smile at Elizabeth's enthusiasm.
At Hilly's the front lawn is being mowed and Yule Mae is hoovering.
She goes to move the sofa away from the wall.
Spotting something she reaches down.
It's a ring.
She looks about her catching her breath and slips it into the pocket of her white apron.
At Elizabeth's, Aibileen lays Mae Mobley down to change her nappy.
As she unpins the nappy, her face stiffens with displeasure.
In her kitchen, she sits facing Skeeter.
She fixes Skeeter with a determined expression.
Minnie barges in.
Seeing Skeeter she puts her hands on her ample hips.
Outside she starts to stride away from Aibileen's house, then stops and walks right back inside.
Skeeter obediently moves back her chair.
Skeeter gawks nervously as Minnie heaves her full round hips onto the table and folds her arms.
Skeeter whips off her specs.
Aibileen is cooking breakfast.
Minnie is drinking tea.
Skeeter looks up excitedly.
At her home Charlotte shouts up the stairs.
Skeeter bursts excitedly through her door in her pajamas almost slipping on the stairs.
She opens the fly screen door of the kitchen and looks about her expectantly.
Skeeter's hair is in rollers.
Skeeter stares at her smooth hair.
Charlotte watches her drive off in a pickup truck with a loaded trailer on the back.
She speeds across a bridge towards a leafy suburb.
At the Holbrooks', Hilly is checking her watch.
Skeeter arrives looking disheveled.
William and Stuart get to their feet.
The men swig their Coke humorously.
At dinner, clean-cut pursuited Stuart downs his glass of bourbon and points imperiously at a waiter.
He looks perplexed.
Hilly ushers her husband away from the table leaving Skeeter alone with Stuart.
Stuart burps.
Skeeter rolls her eyes.
Skeeter leaves the table and barges out much to bourbon- drinking Stuart's amusement.
He winks tipsily at William who shakes his head despairingly.
In her yard, Celia brings a flapping chicken to a log where an ax is waiting to dispatch the bird.
Minnie watching from a window winces.
A tin of Crisco lard.
Celia smiles warmly.
Minnie folds down the top of a brown paper bag and hands it to Celia.
Later, Minnie sits down at a prettily laid table by a window in the kitchen to have her lunch.
She puts a napkin on her lap and brings a fried chicken wing to her lips.
Minnie gapes at Celia's determined expression and sits back down.
Celia bites into a chicken leg and smiles contentedly.
Minnie gives her a look.
Minnie and Aibileen have been listening to the phone conversation in Aibileen's dimly lit house.
She brushes Minnie's hand away.
Her face crumples with the pain of the recollection.
She gets up from the table and leaves the room.
By the Holbrook swimming pool, Hilly is addressing the local ladies.
Elizabeth simpers.
Elain spots the pamphlet peeking out of Skeeter's briefcase.
Theatrically shielding her eyes from the sun, she waits for Aibileen's reply.
Aibileen looks across at Yule Mae and their eyes meet.
Later, Skeeter wanders into the Holbrook's kitchen and finds Yule Mae by the sink.
Yule Mae checks nobody is in near shot.
Hilly comes in, carrying her little boy Billy.
Hilly kisses Billy on the head and hands him over to Yule Mae.
Hilly's face hardens.
Her lip curling unpleasantly, Hilly points a menacing finger.
After dark, Skeeter is working in her room.
She puffs on a cigarette as she considers Hilly's text.
She looks up at a shelf above her and gazes bitterly at a photograph of herself and Hilly when they were younger.
She stubs out the cigarette and takes down the guilt frame photo.
Setting her chin defiantly, she shuts the black and white photo away in the drawer.
In the morning, she's lying asleep on her bed fully clothed as Charlotte in skull cap and dressing gown burst into her room and starts pulling clothes from the wardrobe.
Later, elegantly dressed on the porch, Charlotte tries to eavesdrop on Stuart and Skeeter as she waters her plants.
He starts walking away.
Skeeter, glancing back towards the house, frowns speculatively.
She strides past her smiling date.
In a diner, shirt sleeves rolled up, he's ordered oysters.
They clink oyster and cracker.
He reaches across and takes her hand.
She responds with a smile.
Outside the diner, Stuart grabs her hand.
He steps towards her and kisses her on the lips.
Mae Mobley is sitting on Aibileen's knee with a picture book.
Hilly comes out of her house grimacing.
She pushes aside a press photographer.
Toilets are scattered on the yard.
Cradles her Yard of the Month sign and carries it inside to the amusement of the onlookers.
Mae Mobley, with her knickers down, proudly sits on one of the many toilets scattered across the lawn.
Elizabeth drags her off.
Tenderly carrying Mae Mobley in her arms, Aibileen sets her down on the lawn surrounded by a dozen toilets.
She kneels in front of her.
Taking hold of her hands, looks deeply into the child's moon face.
They huge each other.
Elizabeth, watching coldly from the front door, goes inside.
At the Phelan's, Skeeter, josefo and Pascagoula are watching civil rights activist Medgar Evers on TV.
Charlotte turns off the TV.
The servants scoot away.
Charlotte grabs Skeeter by the hand.
Skeeter pulls away and goes.
On a bus on her way home, Aibileen is napping.
Henry, sitting nearby, looks up from his book.
The bus stops.
The driver switches on the inside lights and faces the passengers.
Aibileen and Henry, who have been sitting at the back of the bus, hurriedly get out and walk off down the dark street.
He goes.
Seeing Henry disappear and around the corner, Aibileen starts to run.
Civil rights activist Roy Wilkins comments.
Aibileen trips and falls.
Minnie's children leave the kitchen.
The three younger ones pile into one bed.
The two friends put their arms around each other.
With a somber expression, Skeeter flips back to the front cover of the LIFE magazine, which shows the distraught widow comforting her young son.
At the foot mansion, Minnie is hoovering down a stuffed standing grizzly bear on a corner dice.
She looks towards the fad and steps down from the platform.
She strolls through the spacious rooms and comes into the bedroom, making a beeline for the bathroom door.
She moves away from the door with a slow, unhurried pace.
She burst through the bathroom door and finds Celia sitting in a pool of blood.
Hastily picking up the fallen towel rack, Minnie calmly takes in the situation.
She pulls the counterpane over Celia who is laying down in her bed.
Minnie presses a wet cloth to Celia's neck.
Minnie's encouraging expression fades.
In the bed, Celia's face crumples in a tearful grimace.
Outside in her garden, Celia has dug a hole in the lawn.
She places a small square card board box into the hall and starts to fill it with earth.
Just in front of her, there are two rose bushes, each in its own brick line flower bed.
The hall almost filled, she reaches for a third rose bush and places it into the hall.
Out on the street, the yellow and green bus doors open and a stream of maids stepped down.
The last to emerge are Yule Mae and Aibileen.
A police officer handcuffs Yule Mae.
Aibileen is pushed back against the side of the bus as Yule Mae is strung armed away.
Her face is pushed down onto the bonnet of a police.
One of the men cautions her.
Aibileen witnesses white mothers and their children turned away with studded indifference.
Hilly sits in her car with her son, her face impassive.
Skeeter's at the counter in the diner as Hilly comes in.
Hilly parks her son in one of the booths.
Henry, behind the counter, leans into Skeeter.
His wise dark eyes peer at her through his owl-like glasses.
She rushes over to Aibileen.
She finds the living room full of maids.
They all turned to look at her with their somber smooth skinned faces.
Aibileen beckons to her.
Her eyes brimming with tears, she steps into the center of the room.
White-haired woman tells her story.
Miss Tine, having lunch with two male colleagues in a swanky restaurant, is on the phone to Skeeter.
An orange cruiser pulls into Elizabeth drive where the bridge launches in full swing.
Mary Beth, taking Skeeter's place at Hilly's table.
Celia, wearing a low-cut fitted plum top over a tight pink skirt, sachets up the garden path carrying a pie.
Elizabeth glances towards the door.
Hilly's jaw drops.
Hilly takes control and duck out of sight.
At the front of the house, Celia sees a gap in the curtains and gives a cheery smile.
Hilly sees.
Celia's friendly smile fades.
She retreats, taking her pie with her.
Aibileen watches her humiliation from the doorway to the kitchen.
On the way to her car, Celia fights back her tears.
Back at home, Minnie looks at her like a mother talking to a small child who's just been bullied.
Meaning the cut above Minnie's eye.
With a sigh, Minnie sits down on the chair Celia has set out for her.
Celia gently dabs the cut with a cloth.
Minnie listens mutely to Celia's suggestion.
At the Phelan's, everyone's listening to Walter Cronkite on the black and white TV.
Stuart kisses Skeeter on the forehead.
They're both wearing black.
She turns her teary eyes back to the TV.
A color photograph of John F. Kennedy now hangs next to the photograph of Aibileen's son.
Minnie's eyes shift.
A flashback to her visit to Hilly's.
Hilly, sitting at a polished mahogany dining table, takes a for full of Minnie's pie and luxuriates in its deliciousness.
Minnie watches her with a look of a satisfied bullfrog.
Hilly takes another forkful.
Mrs. Walters stomps in with an empty glass.
She pours a whiskey.
Hilly shoves the plate at Minnie.
She waves her away and takes another forkful.
Minnie slams down the plate.
The last forkful stoles in Hilly's mouth.
She rises to her feet, squaring up to her skinny shoulders.
Minnie fixes her with a look of barely-disguised amusement.
Minnie's round black eyes indicate the pie.
Mrs. Walters dissolves into giggles.
Minnie raises her eyes from the chocolate-colored pie and fixes them on Hilly.
Hilly wretches.
Minnie picks up the remaining pie and flees.
Skeeter shakes her head.
Minnie, wrapping her cardigan around her, storms out.
A white only Jackson City cab brings Mrs. Walters to the Junior League benefit dinner.
Mrs. Walters joins the other elegantly-dressed guests as they climb the steps towards the fairy lit venue.
The Footes come in arm and arm, grabbing a glass of champagne from a mate's tray.
Sugar, Minnie and Aibileen are on duty in black uniforms with white collars and full-white aprons.
Minnie nudges Aibileen to look at Celia's body-hugging pink dress.
Polishing off her glass, Celia waves at Hilly.
Hilly's automatic smile freezes.
She slaps her husband's cheek for looking.
Charlotte and her husband are among the guests taking to the black and white checkered dance floor.
Next to them, Skeeter and Stuart are dancing cheek to cheek.
Celia, standing by the buffet table with another glass of bubbles, write something down.
On the dance floor, Mr. Blackly performs a jig followed by a cartwheel.
The maids double up with laughter.
Celia wanders unsteadily into the powder room.
Elizabeth, Jolene, and Mary Beth stand in a hostile line in front of the mantle piece.
Celia leans forward to reapply her lipstick, turning her perfectly formed behind in their direction.
In the ballroom, Hilly is at the mic.
Hilly holds out her hand towards the dozen or more staff standing in a line.
Skeeter's face tightens.
Celia's brought a drink.
Jolene runs up onto the stage.
Minnie and Aibileen exchange a look.
Mrs. Walters smiles gaily.
Celia shimmies up behind Hilly.
As Hilly try to stop her, rips her sleeve.
Hilly's look of horror is followed by a patronizing smile.
Celia suddenly looks pale.
She weaves her way through the tables.
Minnie slips away.
Hilly is at the bottom of the stairs, saying goodnight to her guests.
Hilly grimaces angrily as her mother parades her pie at shoulder height like a waitress.
Mrs. Walters and a male guest walk off.
Next morning, Celia shakes her head despairingly.
Minnie moves towards her.
Like a school teacher, she points Celia to a seat at the base of the bed and closes the door of the bedroom.
Celia shoots Minnie an appalled sidelong glance.
At her house, Aibileen and Minnie are smiling at Skeeter's manuscript.
At her home, Skeeter drops her bag on the floor and walks into her mother's bedroom where Charlotte is sitting on her bed without a wig sewing a sampler.
Charlotte takes off her specs and stares at her.
In flashback, Charlotte poses with her medal.
She winks at Constantine, who is nodding approvingly by the door.
At the lunch following the medal ceremony, Constantine is serving each lady in turn, under Charlotte's rather anxious gaze.
Charlotte glances towards the door and then at Constantine, who has not heard the knocking.
Constantine sees her going to the door.
Charlotte glances over her shoulder.
Charlotte shuts the fly screen.
Rachel's face falls.
She barges in.
The guest of honor looks appalled.
Charlotte weighs up her options.
Charlotte swallows hard.
Rachel leads her mother away by the hand, both of them looking back at Charlotte in disbelief as they go through the door, onto the porch.
Constantine turns and looks back at Charlotte through the fly screen.
Charlotte's brown eyes meet her gaze for a second.
Then she looks at the unforgiving faces of the Daughters of America seated at her dining table.
The frail, old servant won't be moved, keeping her uncomprehending gaze directed at Charlotte.
Charlotte shuts the door in her face.
Constantine, in a smart, cream dress and navy hat, is packing her suitcase.
She tosses a cross to the door of her bedroom.
Her fingers trace the lines on the door where she had marked Skeeter and Rachel's heights as they grew.
Finally arriving at the top.
In the present, Skeeter sheds bitter tears.
Skeeter shakes her head in numb disbelief.
Charlotte, her own eyes welling, covers her mouth with her hand, seeing Skeeter's unhappiness.
Skeeter drives the blue Cadillac slowly along a dirt road and peers through some trees at a single-story, white clapboard house, its roof overgrown, standing in a small clearing.
In her mind's eye, she sees Constantine sitting on the front steps, plaiting Skeeter's hair when she was a little girl.
She smiles at the memory.
On a rainy street corner, Miss Stein puts two piles of slim hardbacks with pale blue covers into the window of a bookshop.
Minnie frying chicken opens her envelope of money.
She slips the envelope into the front of the dress and runs out, leaving the chicken to burn.
At the retirement Mrs Walters is reading to some of the residents from the book.
She turns the page with a glib smile.
Later, she's on the phone to her daughter.
Aibileen and Minnie are pushing trolleys in a supermarket.
Aibileen steps to one side to let a white lady pass.
Coming to the end of an aisle, her eyes widen and she hastily steps backwards.
Minnie sees her as well and presses herself against the aisle.
They both steel themselves to walk past but the beefy woman is utterly engrossed.
At Skeeter's house, Stuart comes striding out onto the porch with a face like thunder.
He turns on his heel and marches off towards his Jeep, leaving Skeeter looking bemused and tearful.
She takes two copies.
At home, Charlotte is sitting up in bed next to her sleeping husband, reading the book.
Sinking down into her pillow, she takes off her specs with an appalled look on her face.
Elizabeth, sitting in a rocking chair, is reading it as she bottle feeds her baby.
Yule Mae is reading to her prison inmates.
Hilly's reading it in bed.
Later, Hilly sifts through her post.
She opens the envelope and finds a note from Celia Foote.
She smirks as she unfolds the enclosed check.
She tears the check into tiny pieces and storms out of the house.
Steaming along a straight dirt road between two green fields, kicking up a storm of dust behind her, she sits at the wheel of the Ford Fairlane station wagon, her lips curling.
She glugs back some beer, spilling some over her blouse, and swerves the car.
She glugs down the rest and puffs on a cigarette, throwing the empty bottle into the backseat.
Skeeter receives a letter from Elain Stein offering her a job as a junior editor at Harper &amp; Row Publishers.
Hilly arrives in front of Skeeter's house in a storm of dust and marches towards the front door like an angry chicken.
She hurls a pebble at Skeeter.
A cold sore.
Charlotte's looking elegant in a tight fitting turban, smiles loftily at Hilly.
She and Skeeter can barely keep a straight face.
Charlotte gropes for Skeeter's hand.
They come into the spacious parquet floored hall.
Charlotte suddenly looking very tired.
Skeeter looks away troubled.
Her mother weighs her words carefully.
Looking at her handsome, regal looking mother, Skeeter nods in acknowledgement, but then lowers her eyes.
Smiling warmly, Charlotte leans in and kisses Skeeter on the forehead.
Skeeter tries to smile, but is overcome by sadness.
Charlotte hugs her tightly.
Out in the sunshine, Minnie is strolling towards Celia's house with a bag of groceries, fanning herself in the heat.
A red Chevrolet Corvette Convertible rolls into view.
Minnie's eyes shift, but she doesn't quicken her pace.
The car zooms right up behind her.
She turns to see Johnny at the wheel.
She hurries towards the house.
She throws down the grocery bag and picks up a loose branch.
She tosses away the branch.
Johnny helps pick up the groceries.
He hands her her bag.
With a gentle guiding hand at her back and a good-natured smile, he walks her towards the house.
In the heavily decorated dining room, Celia, in an off-the- shoulder dress, carefully places a dish of cookies into the center of the table, alongside a cooked ham, several cakes and pies, and other dishes of food.
Johnny, taking off his jacket, leads the way into the dining room and stands next to his wife.
Minnie looks bemused.
Minnie's lips crease into a smile.
Celia beams from ear-to-ear.
Johnny pulls out a chair for Minnie.
As Celia serves up, Minnie looks admiringly at the spread in front of her.
Minnie and Aibileen, smartly dressed, hurry to church.
The whole congregation stands.
Looking bewildered, Aibileen joins in the clapping.
Aibileen looks from smiling Pearly to smiling Minnie.
He proffers her the book and she stares at it numbly.
With her eyes lowered, she takes it from him.
Finally, summoning up a smile, Minnie standing with the congregation lifts an approving eyebrow.
Now, Aibileen beckons her to join her, and she, too, seems suddenly shy, stepping up next to her friend in front of all the people.
The two women stand arm-in-arm facing the packed church.
Outside her home, Skeeter leafs through the pages of signatures.
Skeeter's expression is solemn.
She hesitates to meet their gaze.
Aibileen holds out her hand to Skeeter.
Skeeter smiles and nods through her tears.
Back on duty, Aibileen lets herself into Elizabeth's kitchen through the back door, her arms loaded with groceries.
Hilly is with Elizabeth and her baby son.
Mae Mobley runs up to Aibileen.
Hilly blocks her.
Elizabeth hurries out of the room with the baby.
Hilly eyes Aibileen with ice-cold menace.
Aibileen grabs Hilly's arm.
Her lips trembling, Hilly holds Aibileen's firm gaze, then runs off into the next room.
Aibileen blows out her cheeks as she tries to catch her breath.
She hugs the child tightly.
Aibileen, grabbing her handbag, turns to Elizabeth.
Elizabeth looks peevish and uncomfortable.
At the front door, Aibileen casts one last look at Hilly, who seems to have lost all her puff.
Mae Mobley bangs on the window.
In the house, Elizabeth silently weeps.
Mae Mobley stays at the window, watching Aibileen walk away down the drive.
She smiles to herself, and as she walks on down the long, narrow road dappled with sunlight, flanked by tall trees and neat green verges, she has a spring in her step.
People are reflected in the mirror of a shop changing room, peering in nervously.
Dr. Mathison sits beside a black woman who's lying down, gazing into a blanket wrapped bundle.
The women smiles at the wriggling bundle.
The doctor gently lifts the bundle and looks inside.
Still reflected in the mirror, the doctor looks up at the saleswoman.
The doctor looks back at the baby, frowning.
A man is leaning against a train window, staring out as the train pulls away from a station.
The man straightens up and leans back in his seat.
He's wearing a dark gray suit.
The top button of his pale green shirt is undone.
His tie loosely knotted.
The little hair he has is close shaved, leaving just a dark shadow.
Glancing between the seats in front of him, he sees a little girl lying almost upside down, staring back at him.
He grins at her.
The grin fades, and he leans towards the window again.
He rubs the inside corner of one eye wearily.
A slim women in her late 20s, wearing a blue top, stretches up to place her coat on the overhead rack.
As she does, the top parts company with her black trousers, and the man gazes at her exposed white midriff and the section of ivy tattoo climbing through the gap between top and trousers.
He flirtively slips off his wedding ring and drops it into his jacket pocket.
The young woman sits down, glances at some leaflets, drops them in the seat pocket, straightens her shoulder-length brown hair, tucks down her top, sits back, and closes her eyes.
The man looks down at the seat pocket in front of him, stretches forward, and picks up a magazine.
The man picks up the second magazine, and looks at him himself before passing it to her.
The man looks down, swallows, and looks at her again.
He watches another train pass and looks down before turning to her again.
Shake hands.
She looks down at the magazine again.
She looks up, her smile gone, folds and unfolds her arms, tucks her fist under her chin, shows him her wedding ring.
She stands, picks up the leaflets, and moves down the aisle of the train.
His head drops.
He pulls his wedding ring from his pocket, hesitates for a moment before slipping it back on, and settles back in his seat.
Glancing between the seat backs, David sees a little girl in front sitting up now.
Her blonde hair pulled off her face and held by yellow clips watching him and smiling.
He moves out of her sight towards the window and leans against it frowning slightly.
His eyes close.
Outside, trees and shrubs form a green backdrop along the track side.
David's eyes open.
Outside, the greenery is becoming a blur.
The train is moving faster, shaking more than it did.
He watches through the window.
He glances across the aisle.
A man reading a book closes it and, like the woman beside him, begins to stare out of the window as the train begins to shake more violently.
David looks up ahead.
Between the seats, he sees another passenger's hand reaching down to grab hold of an armrest.
A car is driving down a quite urban street.
In a living room, a boy is lies over a sofa, his feet over the back, his head hanging down to the floor, flicking through TV channels with the remote, upside down.
David slowly swings his legs over the side of a hospital trolley and sits up.
In front of him, a white bandaged figure is lying on another trolley.
Dressed only in his shirt and trousers, David looks around uncertainly.
A white coated man carrying a clipboard, who has been standing by the other figure, walks towards David and is replaced by other medical staff.
He holds up a torch.
He examines David's eyes.
David stares at the other trolley.
They both look at the person on the other trolley, whose chest is heaving unevenly.
Still staring at the other figure, David slowly shakes his head.
David shakes his head again, watching a crimson stain slowly seeping through the bandages of the other passenger.
David nods abstractedly as the crimson stain quickly spreads.
The other body heaves as blood forms a pool on top of the bandages.
David walks stiffly down a hospital corridor lined with silent people standing, sitting, leaning against walls, many of them watching him and smiling.
His son sees him, jumps up from the bench, and runs to him.
David hugs his son to his chest, gives him a slight smile, and looks over his head at the slim fair-haired woman who has followed the boy.
They stare at each other.
She moves forward and puts her head on his shoulder, his cheek against her hair.
He puts his arm around her, gazing past her.
She steps back, looks at David, then at the boy, her head on one side.
The boy's lips move.
The three of them stand silently for a moment.
Then the boy takes the woman's hand and puts it in his father's before setting off down the corridor.
As his parents follow, they let go of each others hands.
A gaggle of reporters and photographers, one holding a long boom microphone, are standing inside the big double doors at the end of the corridor.
Flashlights go off as David's family steps out in the open air.
David's sitting alone at the table in a small dimly lit kitchen.
He's staring down at the spoon he's holding against the rim of a cereal bowl.
He nods slightly as he brings the spoon under control.
He walks down the hall past an open doorway and starts to go upstairs.
From inside the room, his wife looks up at him.
He stops and looks down at her.
She's standing in front of open drawer.
She drops her eyes momentarily, looks up again, gently.
He continues upstairs.
David, in a gray jacket, walks past a large sign reading Memorial Service for the families of East Rail Train In the church, a priest stands in the pulpit.
By the pulpit, photos cover a large board.
Outside the church, David heads towards his car.
He stops and looks at the windscreen, walks to it, and takes an envelope from under the windscreen wiper.
He turns the envelope over, frowning, before flicking open the unsealed flap.
He stands looking at the card for some moments before turning and gazing back at the church.
In a locker room, David opens one of the chipped green doors.
He stops in the doorway of an office and takes off his baseball cap.
A gray haired woman with gold rimmed glasses is sitting at a computer.
She glances at her computer screen.
She picks up a pen.
She makes a note and puts down the pen, still without looking at him.
She returns to her work, still ignoring him.
He pulls on his baseball cap and goes.
A cape hooded figure stands motionless in an archway silhouetted black against the teeming rain.
He's watching an american football training session.
One player suddenly erupts into a sprint, sidestepping opponents without losing speed.
He captures the ball thrown from behind and dives over the line.
He tosses the ball to another player and trots back again.
Protected from the rain by the hood of his cape, David sighs deeply.
In the locker room, David towels his head and face.
He puts his towel away and glances to his right.
An older man is in the doorway.
David stares at the locker door, and then glances at Noel.
In a darkened room, a hand reaches out and switches on a bedside lamp.
David, head on a pillow, looks sideways at his son who's sleeping peacefully.
A clock on the other side of the bed says a quarter to one.
David stands at his wife's closed door.
Audrey frowns and shakes her head.
From blackout, a fuzzy grayness takes the shape of a sling holding the arm of a black boy.
He's sitting in a strangely hazy living room, a photo on the wall behind, a corner table with a lamp on it.
The boy's mouth turns down, and he sulks silently, staring blankly ahead.
Behind him the door opens, and a woman enters.
She pauses, hands on hips, then walks towards him.
They are both reflected in the curved screen of an old TV, so the edges of the room look distorted.
She stands beside him, arms folded.
The woman crouches beside the boy, looking into his face.
The boy turns and looks at her.
She stands and folds her arms again.
He's hunched forward, head down.
The boy lifts his head.
The boy goes to the window.
Outside in the sunshine, children are playing in a park with a high chain link fence.
An oblong box with purple wrapping is propped on the seat of a bench facing him.
Chlidren chase past the bench, as the boy walks slowly towards it.
Holding on to the fencing for support as he negotiates the two steps down into the park.
He sits on the bench and picks up the purple package with his good right hand, undoes the white ribbon around it, and tears at the paper.
Inside is a brown cardboard box.
The boy pulls off the lid, folds back purple tissue paper, and stares down.
In the box is a comic, upside down.
Very carefully, the boy turns the comic around on its bed of purple tissue.
The cover features a heroic figure in a yellow cape fighting a powerfully built creature, half-man, half-beast, against a backdrop of New York skyscrapers.
The woman sits gently beside the boy.
The boy continues to stare down at the comic.
She looks away and back at him.
He glances up at her for a moment.
As he looks down again, the words and colors fade, leaving a more detailed black and white version of the comic cover.
The dark haired young man in suit and tie, whose face is reflected in the glass over the drawing, nods.
The young man grins.
Elijah limps across the gallery using a cane.
Elijah turns back to stare at the man.
As he does, David strides towards the gallery with Joseph a few paces behind.
Inside, Elijah is walking away from the door and doesn't look around.
Elijah turns.
They're sitting in an office.
Joseph gazes up at his father.
Joseph looks from David to Elijah, then gets up and goes.
Elijah, in a shimmering, purple, silk suit, gazes at David.
David looks around as Joseph returns.
David is sitting up on a bed, a pillow behind his head, reading the paper.
Joseph is asleep, lying across him.
His head on David's chest.
One arm flung around him.
David lowers the paper and glances at his son.
He closes the paper, and very carefully slides out from under the sleeping boy.
He opens the door to a walk-in wardrobe, switches on the bare bulb, and feels under some folded jeans on a shelf above his head.
He removes a piece of gray cloth from which a gun butt protrudes.
He lays the cloth on his newspaper, unwraps the stubby, black revolver, looks at it, re-wraps it, and replaces it.
Feeling under the jeans again, he removes a battered folder.
He opens it and flips through old newspaper clippings about American football.
A photo of a young David in football gear looks out from another story.
He turns over more clippings, copies of the first stories, pages of sport results, more photos of football matches.
The personalities involved disguised by their helmets and face guards, until he comes to a picture of an overturned car.
He stares at it frowning.
He looks back at the picture of the car, obviously, taken at night.
It's lying just beyond a bend in a tree-lined road, upside down in a ditch.
Its roof crushed.
He glances across the room, quickly closes, and replaces the folder under his jeans.
Audrey is outside his door.
She looks down.
Her face crumbles, and she pushes her fists to her mouth.
He watches her turn and start down the stairs before he shuts the door.
In a huge football stadium, David is on duty holding a walkie-talkie.
In a white covered walkway.
David and Elijah stroll beside the crowds, cuing to get in.
David brushes past a tall, slim man wearing a pale, sandy green and gray camouflage jacket.
A few paces further on, he looks back, eyes narrowed.
When they move on again, Elijah, who's wearing a long black leather coat and his usual black gloves, and walking with the help of his stick, glances back too.
David stops at the head of the queue and speaks to another security.
The other guards starts frisking the fans.
The man with thinning hair and a black beard looks around.
David and Elijah watch the slow moving queue.
Elijah, the taller of the two, but stooping leaning on his stick.
The suspect reaches a break in the metal barriers, steps out of the queue, hand covering his mouth, walks away against the flow of fans.
David looks at Elijah, then away again.
David grins at Elijah.
David looks away again, and nods.
David holds up his walkie-talkie.
David walks along the dark corridor.
Elijah's glass walking stick lands on the seat of his car.
The man in the camouflage jacket walks past the car.
Elijah hobbles around the arched colonnade that encircles the stadium.
Through alternate pools of light and shadows cast by the arches but the man walks fast enough to disappear from sight around the curve of the building.
Staring around anxiously, Elijah spots the man on the other side of the road from the dark brick built stadium.
The man striding down into the subway.
Elijah waits for a car to pass and crosses the road against the traffic lights.
The skirt of his coat flapping open to reveal a purple lining.
He almost skips across the street in his anxiety.
Grabbing the handrail to steady himself and silhouetted against the daylight, he stares down the long steep staircase at the man striding into the tiled station.
Elijah watches the man disappear into the station, looks down, and launches himself down the stairs.
Using his stick and hanging onto the rail, Elijah tries to stay balanced, but his feet don't land accurately.
He slips.
His glass stick flies downwards.
He's sprawled on the stairs on his back, head downwards.
Looking upside down into the station, he sees the man glance back before vaulting the ticket barrier.
As the man's jacket flips up, Elijah sees under it a silver gun with a black grip.
His eyes flicker and close.
A sunny afternoon, a white bus stops on a hill at a suburban street, and David gets out still in his security uniform of green jacket and maroon cap and carrying a holdall.
He turns and walks slowly and smiling towards a small green park where a group of boys are playing American football on the grass.
Joseph runs up some steps to join David, while the other children mill around a young man with a crew cut, admiring his muscles.
They turn and walk away together.
Joseph with his hand on his father's back.
In the dim light of a basement, David wearing a light grey sweatshirt is laying flat on a narrow bench, pushing up a weight's bar.
He straightens his arms, lets the bar down onto a pair of supports on either side of the bench, and sits up.
Joseph, his fringe hanging to his eyebrows, gazes down at David, who looks around at the weights on the ends of the bar.
David looks away, walks behind David to the weights.
David's sitting on a bench, looking down, while Joseph moves from one end of the bar to the other.
He lies back on the bench and grips the bar.
He lifts it off the supports, frowning, and lowers it to his chest.
As he starts to push it up, his mouth contorts with effort, and a large vein stands out on his forehead from between his eyes up into his scalp.
His arms quiver, and his head trembles as he lowers the bar to his chest and pushes it up again.
He reaches full arm extension and drops the bar back onto the supports.
He sits up.
David puts his head on one side quizzically.
He turns to see the weights on the ends of the bar, and Joseph walks up to him.
David twists around to look at the other end of the bar.
Joseph watches tensely.
Joseph takes several paces back towards an open covered door.
On the bench, David grips his hands out wider than his shoulders and takes the weight.
He drops the bar slowly to his chest and pushes up until his arms are straight.
He lowers the bar again and again straightens his arms, while Joseph stares.
Finally, David drops the bar back onto the supports.
David's hands wrap around the bar slowly feeling for the optimum grip.
Even more weights have been clamped to the bar this time.
David's frowning slightly.
Joseph's standing in the cupboard.
On his bench, David braces himself.
He lowers the bar to his chest.
Arms quivering, eyes tight shut, face twisted, he presses it up to full extension.
He repeats the press and replaces the bar.
Above the bar, Joseph's white face appears upside down to David.
Joseph's standing two steps up the staircase.
As the bar rises, two big paint cans appear taped to it next to the weights.
David drops the bar back in its supports.
His left arm flops to the floor.
With his right still gripping the bar, he holds himself upright.
Joseph comes down the stairs.
He walks slowly over to David, who twists around to inspect the weights and the paint cans at either end of the bar.
David's brow furrows.
Joseph gazes at him in awe.
Elijah is lying in a hospital bed.
Elijah nods almost imperceptibly.
Inside, Audrey is sorting through papers on a reception desk.
A nurse approaches her.
The nurse points across the room.
Audrey hands the nurse a yellow file, takes another one from her, and walks across the open plan office.
She leans through a doorway and smiles.
Sitting on a low couch in a treatment room.
She looks up at Elijah who's watching her from his wheelchair.
Metal frame keeps his right leg straight.
The street outside the stadium is empty.
Inside, along one of the shaded walkways, David, in his security uniformis leaning on a wall, casually watching spectators as they crowd in through a gate.
He looks away and stares at the ground.
After a moment, he pushes himself off the wall and moves to the center of the walkway and stands there with his head down and his hands in his pockets.
The crowd streams past him, laughing and smiling.
They jostle and bump him.
Some almost pushing him aside, but he doesn't react.
A large woman in a pink coat, blonde hair hanging over her shoulders, dragging a small boy by the hand, bangs into him.
David turns slowly and looks after her.
Elijah is still talking to Audrey.
In the stadium, David is standing motionless in the center of the walkway.
He turns slowly, frowning, not really looking at the crowds.
A young man in a bright, blue anorak bumps into him.
In the toilets, another young man in a red and blue anorak wrapped half of his shoulders, washes his hands.
He turns away from the basin looks towards the door and he is alone.
Reaching inside a waist bin, he extracts a small package, slips it into his trouser pocket and, hitching up his anorak, walks slowly out.
In the walkway, David watches the man in the bright blue anorak join a queue for tickets and approaches him.
The man looks at David and slowly turns to face him.
The man lifts his arms, and David pats his clothes.
He puts a hand into one anorak pocket, rummaging around, but comes out with nothing.
He steps back.
The man looks at him wearily.
David swallows and nods.
The man turns away.
David watches him, sighs, and turns to walk in the other direction.
David pulls out his walkie-talkie.
David frowns and looks back at the man in the anorak, who is also watching him.
The man quickly looks away.
Joseph's eyes are on David, who's sitting opposite a white haired woman at a table.
Next to Joseph, sits a boy with a thermometer in his mouth.
Joseph nods.
Joseph looks pityingly at the other boy.
David shakes his head.
David shakes his head again.
Another head shake.
David swallows, his eyes fixed on the woman.
David stares.
He and Joseph are outside.
They are humbling through the playground across the colored markings for hopscotch.
Joseph shakes his head.
Dusk is falling in the street outside their house.
In the kitchen, David's at the sink, washing up.
David puts down a pan and stops, starring at Joseph, whose sitting at a table, with David's gun in front of him.
Joseph picks up the gun.
Joseph holds the gun in both hands, pointing it at David.
The gun lands on the table.
David grabs it and quickly removes the bullets, while Audrey collapses, leaning on the table, head in hands.
David bangs the unloaded gun on the cooker, slides down the wall, and sits slumped against it.
Audrey collapses onto the floor.
In the limited edition gallery.
He stares down at the carpet in the sliver-gey room.
Street and shop lights glare in the grey evening as people wait to cross a busy junction.
In a shop, Elijah is motionless, glowering and sullen in his wheelchair.
The walls are covered with comics individually wrapped in plastic covers which reflect the light.
The stock keeper man looks up from behind a counter at the far end of the shop.
He peers toward Elijah.
He puts something away, walks out from the counter, and heads down the aisle towards Elijah.
He has thick, curly hair, wears black jeans and a black Motorhead T-shirt.
He stops halfway down the aisle.
Joseph's playing with two toy figures, a caped superhero and a green reptilian villain.
Audrey joins David, watching their son.
David who's been leaning on the wall behind Joseph, unfolds his arms and puts his hands in his pockets.
He looks at Audrey.
In the shop the assistant peers down at Elijah.
His head sways from side to side, looking for a reaction.
Finally, he walks around to the back of Elijah's chair, takes the handles, and starts to wheel it down the aisle, maneuvering carefully between the heavily stacked shelves and displays.
Suddenly, Elijah wrenches a wheel and the chair slews into a display.
Magazines fall from the display.
The assistant looks at Elijah as if about to speak, his hands moving feebly.
Elijah, slumped in his chair, ignores him.
The assistant starts pushing again until Elijah wrenches the other wheel.
The assistant steps back, raising his hands as if in surrender.
He looks down at Elijah, who still stares sullenly ahead.
They set off again between the racks of comics and related toys.
The assistant leaves Elijah by the display he's run into.
His hand, protected by a padded black mitten, carefully lifts it up.
The cover shows a powerfully built hero in blue, racing towards a gaggle of shadowy demonic figures.
He holds it out towards the assistant who's at the counter on the telephone.
David and Audrey are sitting at a bar, facing each other.
They gaze at each other, very still.
The babysitter.
David gives the girl money.
She turns toward the door and sees the rain streaming down the window.
She throws a little brown jacket over her hair and leaves.
David runs his hand over his head.
Audrey leans against the pillar at the foot of the stairs.
She looks at him, one hand holding his coat, the other in his pocket.
She nods, turns, and goes.
He throws his coat over the back of the sofa.
The green light on the answering machine flashes in a dark room.
David walks in from the unlit landing and presses a button.
Headlights blaze through the teeming rain.
The car stops before a chain link fence.
The driver's door opens and a caped and hooded figure walks to the fence.
He looks to his left, stands for a moment, a black shape against the headlights, hesitates, then grasps at links above his head and begins to climb.
A high door swings open, and the caped figure stand in the entrance of a warehouse.
He looks around.
Silver-grey light from the rows of small windows glows on strange objects.
To his left, beyond a set of stairs, two looming shapes appear and become recognizable as the ends of two train carriages, slightly bent and twisted.
The man walks to the nearer of the two, not badly damaged at the back.
As he looks up at the length of it, however, he sees that the sides have been smashed open.
The little remaining glass is cracked and shattered.
Seats lean drunkenly, having been torn from their mountings, their upholstery charred and blackened.
Light catches the man's face as he stares up at the wrecked carriage.
He stands quite still, looking up, grim faced, for a long time, ignoring drops of water falling from his hood.
In the dark, a man is crouching on a force.
He rises onto his knees.
As his head comes up, light falls on the face of David, aged about He looks around.
The light is coming from a burning car, upside down behind him.
He staggers towards it, stumbling on his knees, crawling.
A young woman lies in the burning car, unconscious.
Audrey is lying very still.
David grasps the edge of the car door with both hands and pulls.
He bends down and checks the door catch, which doesn't move.
Audrey's arm is hanging out of the window.
David grabs the edge of the door again and heaves.
Beyond him, flames rise up into the night sky.
He rips the door from its hinges, bends down, and releases Audrey's seat belt.
David drags Audrey from the car, cradles her in his arms, and lays her down gently some yards away.
He looks over his shoulder and sees the lights of a pickup truck coming slowly around the bend.
He waves frantically.
When he looks back, Audrey's eyes are open.
He holds her head, tenderly.
The truck driver runs to them.
David looks into the man's concerned face, and back at Audrey.
Very slowly, he lifts his head, the flames still flickering behind him.
He has a thoughtful expression on his face and doesn't meet the man's eyes.
Elijah rolls his wheelchair along a darkened corridor, his right leg still sticking straight out with its two long rows of shiny bolts protruding from the metal frame around it.
He picks up the phone.
Elijah looks straight ahead, past the rows of shelving, displaying a huge collection of comics.
David is standing at the top of the stairs above the the concourse of Philadelphia Train Station.
On either side of him, tall classical stone pillars.
Directly ahead, the enormous, bright disk of the station clock.
In the beams of cold silver light from lamps high above in the ceiling, people scurry across the concourse.
Uniformly grey against the grey floor and walls, David descends the stone staircase.
He stands at the foot of the stairs in a baseball cap and his rain cape, watching humanity ebb and flow.
He starts to walk unhurriedly through the crowd.
A young blonde woman in a bright red jacket bumps into him.
He sees, watching from above, the same woman wearing a different shiny jacket in a jewellery shop.
She points and the elderly assistant, and while his back is turned, reaches over the counter, takes a bracelet, and drops it into her bag.
David watches her disappearing into the crowd.
He moves slowly on.
Other people pass him, some touching him.
He stops in the middle of the concourse, people swirling around him, and holds his left hand out slightly, fingers extended.
A man in a check shirt worn outside his trousers brushes into David's extended hand.
Once again, he's looking down from high above.
The man in the check shirt leans out of a pickup and smashes a bottle over the head of a black woman strolling along a city street at night.
Frowning, David watches the man drain a beer can and drop it into a trash bin.
A young man in a green shirt kneels by a bed.
A young woman in a very short party dress is sprawled on the bed.
She rolls over, unhearing, the dress revealing her thighs.
The boy watches for a moment, rises, and the girl's leg slips off the bed.
She's lying on her side, blonde hair spread over an assortment of coats.
She isn't moving.
The boy leaves, closing the door behind him.
David turns and looks around the station.
A group of college students files past him, all wearing maroon baseball caps.
He looks beyond them and sees the young man wearing a green jacket embrace his mother and turn to smile at his father.
David watches and starts to walk backwards, swallowing hard, and glancing at other people as they pass by.
He backs into a maintenance man in orange overalls pushing a trash bin on wheels.
A man opens his front door to the maintenance man now in an orange T-shirt.
The two men stare at each other through the outer fly screen door.
The maintenance man grabs the door.
He holds the door open.
David sees an image of the house owner sprawled on the basement steps.
He stares upwards for a moment, his eyes wide.
Still looking shocked, he gazes around the concourse and spots the maintenance man emptying the trash can on the far side.
David follows the man as he pushes his wheelie bin around a corner and along a dimly lit corridor.
A couple of people are lounging listlessly against the wall.
David stands gazing at the door, seeing shadows of people passing back and forth inside through frosted glass panels.
The door opens and the maintenance man reappears, wearing a cap and with a bag slung across his body.
The man walks at a steady pace along a dark street lined with cars, and up a long stairway lit by tall bright lamps on alternate sides.
David follows him with the hood of his cape up against the teeming rain.
At the top of the stairs, he waits and watches.
The man continues up a street on a gentle incline, where large houses are set back from the road, and turns and walks up the path to a detached house with a mature tree in the front garden.
He stops in the porch, looks up and down the street, takes something from beside the porch, and disappears into the shadows around the side of the house.
David drops his head, staring down at the ground.
The shadow from his hood obscures all his space but a triangle from his nose to his mouth.
He lifts his head and looks towards the house.
Two strips of light appear and very slowly widen as a door opens.
The spreading light falls on mail scattered over a tiled floor, and on clothes strewn on the floor further inside.
Water drips from a cape onto a pair of shoes.
David stands silhouetted in the doorway.
Lights are on inside the house.
Beyond three open doorways, David can see a staircase.
He stops in the doorway, and slowly turns back.
He takes a step back into a dark lobby, looking to his left, and reaches forward to open another door.
He looks around and switches on a light.
The house owner is lying head down on the basement steps, and David sees again the maintenance man's violent entry into the house.
David closes the door and moves slowly into the next room, which has half paneled walls.
He passes a chair at the end of a table, which suggests it's the dining room.
The next room has easy chairs, a sitting room.
Light from a television flickers and he glances towards it.
He stops before moving into the hallway.
David's shadow grows larger on the wall at the top of the stairs as he climbs them.
He peers through the crack of a partly open door.
Frowning, he steps forward and pushes it open wider, and flicks on the light.
He steps into a child's bedroom with pop posters on the wall.
He looks across the room, past the bed, to a second door.
He stands in the doorway of a bathroom, where a boy and girl, not quite teenagers, are sitting on the floor facing each other, their wrists tied above their heads.
He kneels beside the boy pulling the plastic cable tying his wrists to a towel rail, light glinting on his wedding ring.
The cable falls free, and he crosses, still on his knees, to the girl, and repeats the operation, glancing over his shoulder to the open door behind him.
He silences the pair, hand out, palm down.
In another larger bedroom, plain white linen curtains flap at the open window, giving glimpses of a pair of bare legs stretched out on the carpet.
The curtains flap further apart, revealing a woman in a dressing gown, sitting on the floor, and leaning against an old fashioned black radiator.
Her knees are drawn up.
The gown has slipped partway up her legs.
Her wrists are tied above her head and lashed to the radiator.
Her head lulls on one side.
From the other side of the room, David looks down at her and puts a finger to his lips.
He cross to the full length window and parts the curtains.
After a moment, he steps through the curtains onto a balcony and walks to the edge, raindrops glistening on his rain cape.
He leans on the rail and looks over.
The maintenance man in orange launches himself at David from inside the bedroom.
David is hurled over the balcony.
He lands on his face in water.
He lifts his head.
The black shiny surface on which he's lying begins to crease and sag.
Water forms an ever larger pool around him.
He watches the rain splashing in the water in front of him as he gradually begins to sink.
Over to his left, he sees a crumpled ridge of plastic sheeting begin to fold in on itself.
More ridges ahead and to his right do the same.
Behind him, as the sheeting slips inwards, he sees a glistening white surface beneath it.
From above, the black plastic swimming pool cover enfolds him, wraps him up, and sinks into the dark water.
Beneath the surface, blackness gives way to light from above, seen through a haze of bubbles, before the blackness closes around him again.
His hands thrash in the bubbles reaching for the light.
High above the water, a blurred shape in orange turns away from the balcony.
Darkness and light alternate under the water as David struggles to free himself from the embrace of the black cover.
Through the bubbles, a pole appears, poking down from a blurred figure at the pool side.
David reaches for it, loses it, sees it again, and at the third attempt, grasps it.
Above the pole, bright lights shine into the pool.
David struggles to the surface, clinging to the pole, lets go of it to claw his fingers over the pool edge.
The pole slides away, and David hangs on grimly for a moment before hauling himself out of the water and crawling painfully slowly away from it.
The two children are standing a few paces away, drenched by the rain, watching him.
The pole is lying on the ground between them.
David stands and looks at them.
Liquid splashes onto the woman's bruised and bloody wrists, bound tightly by twists of wire.
Looming over her, beer bottle in hand, the huge maintenance man spits a stream of liquid at her bruised face.
David closes on him from behind, throws his left arm around the man's neck, and clamps his wrists with his other hand.
The man tears at the choking arm, and slams David back into the bedroom wall.
David's back leaves a dent in the plaster wall.
The man tries to throw him off, but David squeezes his throat relentlessly.
The man jabs him viciously in the ribs with his elbow, lifts him again, but can't escape the arm across his throat.
He staggers across the room, lifting and twisting David, still trying to throw him off.
They reel across the room and he smashes David into the wall again.
He thrashes about, pulling desperately at the arm locked around his neck, and makes another backward rush into the wall before falling forward onto his knees.
He rises off balance and David drags him back down.
He sinks to the floor and David tightens his grip yanking against the man's neck.
David throws off the inert form and the maintenance man falls face down, motionless.
David crosses to the woman and quickly untwists the wire from her wrists.
When they are free, her arms flop down.
David steps back and the woman slumps sideways onto the floor, limp and unreacting.
He stands over her, still in his cape, gazing down at her.
David gently opens a closet door.
Audrey's sleeping body in a white night dress is carried from the shadowy light of her room to the foot of the stairs.
She opens her eyes in the brighter light of the hall, and lifts her head as David carries her up the staircase.
She watches him, smiling very faintly, her long, fair hair falling back from her white forehead, and the light making a silver line of her profile, emphasizing her aquiline features, as she stares steadily up at him.
He carries her along the landing and into the bedroom, where he lays her softly on the bed.
Her eyes follow him around the room.
Her head turns to him as he gets into bed beside her.
She looks into his eyes for a moment as he lays his head on her shoulder, before she turns back, and gazes out beyond the foot of the bed.
Her eyes close.
Audrey opens her eyes again as David closes his, and his face relaxes.
Joseph, in a green T-shirt with white and gold bands around the middle, walks downstairs and into the kitchen.
Audrey and David are at the table, leaning towards each other, holding hands.
They look around at him, smiling.
David picks up the paper and Audrey goes to the cooker.
She's wearing a white T-shirt and green and white striped pajama bottoms.
Joseph sits at the table, looking up at her cautiously.
David continues to read the paper.
She turns from the cooker.
David continues to read, at last looking up and nodding.
Joseph unscrews the cap of a big carton of orange juice and carefully pours himself half a glass full.
He replaces the cap and stands to remove the carton from the table.
He sits again, staring at the glass.
The paper slides surreptitiously across the table to him.
Joseph looks up at his father, who almost imperceptibly nods down at the story.
Joseph pulls the paper to him and reads.
Beside the headline is a black and white drawing of the heroic figure in a cape, with a particularly prominent square jaw.
Joseph gazes down at the paper, his lips moving slightly.
He looks up at David, mouth open.
David nods expressionlessly.
Joseph closes his mouth, swallows, and blinks hard.
David puts a finger to his lips, and Joseph nods and wipes away a tear.
David glances down, then looks up and gives Joseph a smile.
At the Limited Edition Gallery, a bored security man looks at a picture, and a waitress carries a tray of food amongst the smartly dressed guests.
Elijah is talking to a couple from his wheelchair.
David wanders in wearing a casual brown jacket and open-neck shirt, glances around him, and stops in front of a picture.
A black woman with gray hair approaches him, looks across the busy gallery.
David looks across the busy gallery.
Elijah's wheeling his chair from the gallery down the narrow corridor lined with comics.
David is following.
Elijah freewheels down a ramp into his office and swings the chair around to face David.
He's wearing a tight black leather zip-up jacket with short glittering blue lapels.
He reaches to a shelf behind him and picks up a paper.
He looks at it and turns it round, showing David the drawing of the hero in the cape.
He drops the paper in his lap.
Slowly, looking into David's eyes, he holds out his gloved hand, and, equally slowly, David takes it and squeezes.
David sees Elijah sitting in an airport lounge.
Other passengers run to the big window.
Elijah in his blue suit doesn't even turn his head.
After some moments, he rises and limps away.
Elijah's sitting on a bar stool.
The man leans into him.
On a railway platform, the train driver's approaching his cab, when Elijah steps down from it.
Elijah walks down the platform.
David stumbles two or three paces back from Elijah, staring at the other man, eyes wide.
Elijah coolly swivels his chair towards his workbench, and puts down the paper.
David looks over to the bench and sees a screen showing a video of Philadelphia Stadium.
Another screen of technical drawings, newspaper clippings about disasters, books on chemistry and microbiology, batteries, wiring and timing devices, and, pinned to the wall, blueprints and more clippings.
Elijah swings his chair back to face David.
Head slightly to one side, he looks David full in the face.
David glances disbelievingly around Elijah's den.
David turns and walks away.
David's face is set, looking grim.
Elijah smiles.
The torch flows brightly.
The shining light gives way to the pitch black darkness of space.
A shining parabola cuts through the inky blackness.
The curving edge of planet earth is illuminated dwarfing further planets in the distance.
The glowing rings of Saturn arc around the planets central sphere.
Fast solo flares erupt from the surface of the sun.
Tendrils of white hot flame flicker around the billowing molten components.
Whitout.
Earth, a rainy night.
The gates of the mine open and a taxi drives through.
The passenger was the spectacled something Adrian Hold.
He spots a young boy sitting by a key, cuddling with a toy boat, to the driver.
The driver ignores Adrian and drives through the puddle smashing the boy and his boat.
Inside the Institute of Astro Physics University of New Delhi they stand on a rickety, descending limb.
The lift reaches the bottom, a breaded man has been swithched over.
Gurdeep grabs ice buckets.
At a computer terminal.
Another computer screen displays the solar eruptions.
Adrian frowns at the screen.
Gurdeep pours ice around Doctor Lokesh's feet.
A door opens into a dark and a chamber containing a water tank.
Gurdeep helps Satin open up the large tank.
Adrian stares down into the tank.
The water inside bubbles and boggles.
He arrives at the Lincoln Plaza Hotel, Washington D.C.
Adrian takes a document from his bag.
Barely something Anheuser frowns at Adrian.
A peeved looking Anheuser turns slowly and takes the document from Adrian's hand.
He puts his drink down on a waiter's tray then walks off with the document, fishing a pair of glasses from this top pocket, on the way past Adrian.
Anheuser reads the document in a quiet corner of the party.
Adrian stands behind him.
Anheuser frowns, looks up and turns.
With adrian duffle bags still in his arms, Scotty watches Adrian follow Anheuser from the party.
Day time, police try to control an anti G8 protest.
The car drives right across the spherical building.
The distinguished looking something US President Wilson enters the G8 Summit and scans around a large table where many other people are either standing or seated.
An interpreter leaves the station.
A large number of the other people present file out of the room.
Wilson looks around at the double doors are closed behind him.
Eight heads of state remain.
Military choppers fly over the shore line village.
locals board trucks.
A young villager called Nima.
Soldiers stopping Nima's brother Tenzen from following the truck as it drives away.
Villagers raise their hands.
Tenzen raises his hat.
The Kernel points.
The villagers look up as controlled explosions detonate high in the mountains.
MI Techs Officer Isaac arrives outside his suite.
He stops for a security scan.
Inside the opulent suite, Isaac sits opposite a Saudi prince who holds an electronic document in his hands.
The prince wears a pair of sunglasses, the Techs reflected in them.
The prince removes his sunglasses.
A group of workers roll a storage crate through a darkened exhibition hall.
They open the crate, which contains a replica of Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa.
The workers replace the Mona Lisa with the replica.
he shines a troch on the hanging replica.
He shines the torch over the replica's candles, highlighting Mona Lisa's mouth.
A TV broadcast shows a Mayan temple.
Handsome, dark haired , something Jackson, leaps off his couch when he was sleeping
and rushes into his bathroom to clean his teeth.
He answers the phone on his way out.
Jackson silently curses his car
and walks out of the garage.
Jackson gets into a stretch limo with black dark windows.
And drives off past the surface.
A jagged crack in the road stretches around the corner.
Kids jump over it.
He arrives at his ex-wife Kay's house.
Standing on the garnd way, the barrel looks stunned as the moored ship lists up and down dramatically in San Francisco Harbor.
Passenger stumble as the boat's hull crunches into the docks.
Ship stewards help passengers up as Harry and his friend Terry scan around.
Frowning.
In bed, Laura wakes and answers her phone.
Roland is driving.
The back of Roland's car explodes as he is driving.
The car flips forward and glows into flames.
Jackson's limo rounds a corner on the way to Yellowstone National Park.
Wilson looks across the Oval Office at Anheuser.
Laura enters with a newspaper.
A story about Roland's death.
She turns on the TV.
She ignores Adrian.
Wilson eyes Anheuser who gets up to go.
Adrienne follows.
She sits down heavily on one of the sofas.
President Wilson pulls up a chairs and sits in front of her.
He put his hand over hers.
At Yellowstone Park.
Jackson drops his daughter Lily's hat over a fence
then climbs after it.
Lily and her brother, Noah, follow Jackson along a sparse trail.
They arrive at a clearing with a parched, lake basin in the middle.
They head down to the cordoned off basin which is bubbly and marshy underfoot.
Big tripods have been positioned within the cordon.
Jackson and the kids approach a dead, rotting stag.
Stationed amongst the trees on a hillside, somebody watches the three of them through binoculars.
Steam rises from the lake bad around Jackson.
He takes his kid's hands as a conveyor army comes arising in the top infornt of him.
The watcher in the trees is a guy called Charlie Frost.
He reports into a walkie-talkie on the activity by the basin.
Long-hair Charlie scarfs a pickle.
Jackson sits in the passenger seat of an army geep, the kids in the back.
Soldiers crouch behind him.
They arrive at a busy research facility.
Jackson smooths back his black hair.
In an office with Professor West, Adrienne talks to Satnam via the Internet.
He talks a great expression worn by Satnam and West.
Mouth agape, Adrienne straightens away from the computer screen.
Wide-eyed Adrienne frowns.
He looks of the window and spots Jackson knocking about with Lily and Noah.
He watches as Jackson lifts up Lily.
Adrienne looks around furtively at West who sits behind him.
Satnam disconnects and turns to his wife Aponna.
He kneels by his son, Ajeet.
At Yellowstone, Charlie spies on Jackson and the kids.
nightfalls
Adrienne climbs on board of an helicopter.
In his darkened office at the White House, Anheuser hangs up the phone and looks out of the French windows.
At the campsite in Yellowstone, Jackson watches the chopper fly overhead.
He brings up google maps to show Yellowstone on his laptop.
In the tent, Noah swats a bug.
Jackson spots Noah sending a text on a cell phone
and takes it from him.
Noah zips the door closed on Jackson.
Jackson sits back and reads the text.
Jackson sits in his limo typing on his laptop.
He spots Charlie nearby broadcasting from an RV.
Newspaper clippings.
Charlie, who has a beard darker than his long, straggly hair, looks around furtively
then leans in close.
Jackson frowns dubiously then nods calmly.
Gordon hugs Kate in a supermarket.
She smirks.
A crack appears in the car park outside.
It rumbles beneath a car.
The crack opens approaching another car.
In the supermarket.
He finds it nearby and hands it to her.
At the checkout, a customer's trolley rolls slowly away.
A crack appears on the supermarket floor.
Cereal boxes shake as Kate reaches out for them.
A large crack tears through the floor between them.
At Yellowstone.
Lily scratches.
Noah looks gravely at Jackson.
Anheuser follows Wilson into the White House situation room.
A well dressed, middle aged man approaches the boxes corner of the ring.
The fight begins.
Sitting by a glamorous, young, blonde Tamara, Uri looks at his mobile.
He presses his thumb to the screen to confirm his identity.
Uri looks up blankly
and then stands and is out of the arena checking his watch as he goes.
Tamara stands and calls after him.
Sultan spots Uri leaving.
Masiive hit on sultan
and he runs to the canvas.
Jackson drives the kids in the limo.
The kids fell asleep in the back seat.
Jackson pulls up outside Kate's house in the early morning dew.
He climbs out of the limo
and opens the back door.
Kate comes outside.
They hug.
Jackson watches by the limo as Gordon comes outside.
Jackson smiles and waves to Lily as she goes inside.
Kate turns.
He holds his phone up.
Kate goes indoors.
Jackson gets back into the limo.
Jackson changes into a chauffeur's uniform.
Tamara looks fondly at her little Pekingese dog, Caesar.
Jackson pulls up on the driveway outside Yuri's palatial mansion in Bel Air.
Curly-hair twin boys Alec and Oleg wait on the steps.
They both check their watches.
Jackson takes their luggage over to the boot.
Jackson pulls up on the runway at Santa Monica Airport
and jumps out.
Yuri's pilot Sasha marches over.
A case hits Alec's foot.
Oleg glares over a shoulder as he boards the waiting plane.
Jackson gets in the limo
and switches on the radio.
Gordon watches TV over breakfast.
The whole house shakes violently.
Gordon, Kate and the kids climb under the table.
On the TV, the press conference is similarly affected.
Jackson pulls up outside.
Jackson heads indoors.
The house rocks unpredictably.
The house collapses
and they board the limo as the trees fall off ahead of them.
Jackson reverses the limo
and the back door is knocked off.
He bumps on a Porsche
and it falls into an earthquake.
Gordon is slightly pissed.
Jackson sets off on high speed as the street falls to pieces.
The creeks off the road rears up savagely behind them.
Kate in the back seat holding Lilly.
The collapsing road rushes out to them.
two old ladies driving steadily ahead of them
Jackson pwers through gardens.
The old lady powers into a rising section of the road.
The limo soars over a gap.
Buildings have obliterated all around them.
Sweage thorws on the windscreen.
A giant Donut rolls across the road.
The race freeway breaks in half.
A missed truck smashes into a petrol Station and explodes.
They drive alongside the collapsing bridge.
Cars fall from the freeway, smashing into the road around the limo.
they approach a huge gap.
Jackson spins the Limo into a type hole and accelarates over pass beneath the freeway.
Jackson drives the limo into a ramp and drives in the collapsing buildings ground flour
A high rise falls on the road.
the limo smashes out of the other side.
in the corridor of the whitehouse
in the airport the pilot lies dead near the petrol station.
Jackson`s limo pulls up.
Jackson grabs his case from the limo
a giant fissur hole causes havoc and destruction as it arrows towards the airport.
The runway starts to collapse.
Gordon eyes the controls nervously.
the fissure approaches.
Jackson lands gordons hands on the throttle.
Gordon pulls the controlls up.
and the plane takes off as the runway disintegrates beneath.
Noah stares wide-eyed.
a canyon opens up beneath them.
buildings fall into the canyon
Gordon pilots the plane between tumbling sections of the freeway, then rolls to the right.
people run helplessly over jacked sections of broken roads and pavements.
and flies low over the devastated center of town
Gordon struggles for height as the street rises.
Lilly sobs as people and cars are thrown into the doom below.
As the plane dips into the rising canyon.
a train arcs overhead.
hits a wall and explodes.
The plane clears the canyon.
up a head two high rised towers falling down forming an upside down V shape.
Gordon pilots the plane straight through the gap as the building shattering all around them.
Debris fills the sky as the light plane rises.
narrowly avoiding the falling tower behind them.
Jackson gawps as the plane clears the city which has been carved in two by the gigantic fissure.
they stare at the devastation below.
Noah gives tearful Lilly a big hug.
Jackson and Kate follow Gordon's gaze out of the windscreen.
Behind them, the kids stare out of a side window.
The Californian coastline bears up slowly and slips into the sea.
explosions blossoming in the street.
buildings collapse as the whole state breaks apart and slides beneath the water.
On board the Genesis.
he is given a drink
Harry steps off stage
and takes the phone call in the galley.
Scotty knocks on Adrian's office window.
Adrian gestures for another minute,
then gets up and paces.
Adrian frowns sadly as Harry hangs up.
Harry stands up
and stops a passing waiter.
Tony can see them from the dressing room.
Kevin, the waiter, pours Harry the double.
Tony watches Harry drinking.
Biplane buzzes over the research facility of Yellowstone Park.
A grazing doe watches as Gordon makes a tentative landing.
Jackson leaps out and checks a petrol pump.
Jackson starts the RV.
Noah answers his phone.
Lily spots charili on the ridge
Jackson stops near the ridge.
Both men look around dubiously as a huge flock of birds takes to the sky.
Lilly joins the two men on the ridge.
They look around again.
The undulating mountain range streching out beneath them rises ominously.
The land sinking to lift itself upwards.
Lilly backs away slowly.
A funnel of steam breaks through a crack in the ground below.
Charlie beams.
They run off past Charlie's motorbike.
Gordon steps on to the runway and checks his watch.
The mountains of Yellowstone are wrapped in a blinding flash and fulminating an awe-struck Charlie on the ridge.
Kate and Gordon shield their eyes.
Jackson eyes the blast in the RV's mirror.
A blinding flash fills the sky, then a vast wave of energy flattens the remaining trees.
and sends Charlie flying backwards.
A tower of fire and thick black smoke fills the air.
Kate hugs Noah by her side.
Charlie clambers back to his feet as fireballs rain down behind him throwing from massive eruption.
Charlie stands, hands up wide as a huge chunk crashes right into him.
Fireballs slam down on the park.
Jackson drives the RV along the road through the carnage.
He swerves to avoid crashing rock then straightens the vehicle.
A fireball hits the back of the RV and leaving a flaming hole
On the runway, Noah peers out of the plane.
Kate stands, looking anxious.
Molten rocks crash down on the reserch centre.
The flaming rocks hammer the area.
a fissure splits the Ground between The RV and the runway.
he accelerates, the RV jumps.
the ground falls away as the RV lands narrowly between the widening canyon.
Jackson pulls up behind the plane.
Kate rushes over as Jackson emerges.
Kate hurries back to the plane with Lilly.
Tarmac cracks as Jackson looks back into the RV.
Jackson finds a london tube map.
a big burning fissure breakes open.
and the RV tips backwards into it
Jackson falls along the center aisle.
and desperately grabs a handle.
At the plane's controls, Gordon looks over his shoulder.
Gordon sets the plane moving.
fireballs hit the ground by the runway
a hand appears on the jagged edge of the fissure.
another hand appears, this one clutching a map.
thick smoke fills the sky.
Jackson sprints along the runway after the plane.
Kate grabs Jackson and yanks him inside the plane.
Fireballs trailing thick columns slam into the ground as the plane rises to the end of the runway.
Claiming rocks arrow through the sky as Gordon clears a hill top and outruns a volcanic erruption.
the clouds gains on the plane passing the occupants in shadow.
The plane rockets from the swirling cloud and flies away from the fireballs.
Noah gives a thumbs up.
Kate turns to Jackson.
Jackson catches his breath and opens up the map.
It's a big map of China
Everyone stares at him dubiously.
Gordon looks around from the pilot seat.
Adrian hurries into Anheuser's office.
Adrian follows Anheuser into the corridor which is buzzing with activity.
The famous arms-outstretched statue of Christ the Redeemer breaks apart and crumbles over the streets of Rio.
Anheuser and Adrian enter the darkened chapel.
Anheuser looks surprised
and turns around
and walks out of the chapel.
Two agents close the doors leaving Adrian and Wilson in the gloom.
Wilson puts his hand on Adrian's shoulder.
Then hold each other's gaze.
Smoke fills the sky above Las Vegas.
Buildings burn by a deep chasm through town.
Light plane approaches McAllen airport as the runway crumbles into the chasm.
They land on a chaotic runway.
Twins Alec and Oleg are with Yuri and Tamara by the grounded plane.
the mechanic runs off
The fireman forces Yuri to move.
A limo pulls up by Air Force One.
Adrian gets out.
on board
Anheuser hangs up his cell phone in the busy control room which is lined with computer equipment and terminals.
Adrian enters and stands before Anheuser, who tries to read his expression.
The staff onboard stop what they're doing.
Adrian stares forlornly as Anheuser walks off.
airforce one taxis along the runway.
n board, Laura comes out of the president's cabin,
a steward approaches.
Laura goes into the cabin
and picks up the phone.
She leans against the wall.
As Laura sobs, a light goes out behind Wilson.
His secretary, Sally, stands in the doorway.
He lowers the phone from his ear.
Air Force One takes off.
Wilson sits before a tv camera in the office.
Broadcast fades.
Everyone turns.
The fireman's face falls,
he shuts the glass door.
It reflects the fast approaching ash cloud.
Sasha leads Jackson and the others to a cargo plane, an antonov
They board the plane.
The lights come on in the cargo hold.
It's full of gleaming sports cars.
Sasha does it for him.
The Antonov taxis into the position as the Ash cloud billows across the airport.
The cloud engulfs the control tower.
The Antonov loses the tire.
They approach the runway damaged end.
The plane drops.
The plane sales into the chasm.
Onboard, Yuri holds his sons to their seats.
Tamara touches Caesar.
two buildings are up ahead.
Gordon pilots them between the buildings.
the plane wide rings narrowly scrapes through.
they rise.
The control shaken their hands as they clear another building.
Gordon gawps as they drove towards a tall tower and take the tip off with the underside of the plane.
Jackson pats Noahs hand.
Kate hugs Lilly.
In Tibet, Nima and Lama Rinpoche sit together on the balcony of a small monastery overlooking a snow-covered mountain range.
Lama Rinpoche looks calmly at Nema
and then pours out some tea for both of them.
Rinpoche fills Nema's cup until it overflows.
Nema reaches out To stop him pouring.
Rinpoche stops pouring.
A breeze blows across the balcony.
Prayer flags hanging from the eaves of the roof billow.
Rinpoche holds something up,
then tosses it to Nema.
Nema catches it.
It is a truck key.
Nema grins at the key then at Rinpoche.
Nema drives the truck through his village which sits beneath the mountains.
Nema's grandma feeds chickens in a pen.
Nema pulls up outside his grandma's house.
Nema's grandma steadies a chicken.
Grandma chops the chicken's head off.
it is a winter hat.
Yuri sits apart staring at a photograph of his ex-wife and the twins.
Jackson joins him.
He hands him a flight jacket.
Yuri glances at the women.
Jackson nods and raises his eyebrows.
Gordon peers down the cockpit
Gordon descends steps in the Antinov.
He points his thumb upstairs.
Gordon climbs back up
Jackson and Yuri join him and Sasha in the cockpit
through smoke and clouds they see fire and mountain lava
Hawaii is devastated.
the Antonov flies over the city as skyscrapers collapse and burn.
On Air Force one.
He enters the Presidential cabin.
She looks away from him.
Nora smiles and nods.
Night, a phone rings on the desk.
A child opens a bedroom door,
and a girl in slippers trots across floorboards.
The child picks up the receiver.
Tony is calling from the ship.
Tony has a hand over one ear.
Her father and mother sit up in bed as the daughter runs into their room.
Husband and wife exchange glances.
Tony studies her photograph and fights back tears.
His son picks up the receiver and studies it.
Then looks back across the room to where his Japanese wife stands with her arms on the child's shoulders.
The room begins to shake.
Tony hears the screams before the line goes dead.
He hangs up.
Tony glances away.
Washington.
President Wilson walks through crowds outside the White House.
Ash falls like snow.
The injured are being treated beside ambulances.
Wilson enters the West Wing.
His clothes are covered in ash.
People stare at him.
A fireman touches the brim of his hat.
A female paramedic jumps to her feet to salute him.
He acknowledges her salute
then crosses to a woman with a small girl.
Behind the woman is a couch.
His secretary runs over.
Outside the ash continues to fall as crowds mill around.
The medic looks up.
Everyone looks around.
Now violently shakes the ground.
Patients are being treated on gurneys that are alarmed.
It splits open.
The president clinging to a drip stand, fixes his eyes on the tall pointed Washington monument.
It sways and starts to fall like a felled tree.
On Air Force One.
All eyes turn to Laura.
Adrian watches Anheuser.
At Saint Peter's in Rome.
The Pope leads the prayers of the faithful gathered in the square.
The Cardinals gathered inside look up at the great painted ceiling of the Sistine Chapel as it begins to crack.
Great cracks appear in the walls and the ceiling gives way.
Outside, the crowd panics as the amazing edifice of Saint Peter's, with its huge dome, keels forward.
and crashes into the square.
On Air Force One, Scotty studies a screen.
The projective tsunami is spread across the oceans of the world.
The boat is still upright on the turbulent ocean.
Adrian father Harry plays the piano
And drinks.
Kearney with others watches TV with others in the galley.
Harry enters the galley.
Tony dazed, gets to his feet and wanders aimlessly towards him.
The trolley with the television on it starts to roll, as do other filled trolleys around.
The ship vibrates.
Harry moves towards a door and hangs onto a handle.
Tony clings to a table.
As the ship starts listing, the table is torn and personnel sliding down the slope.
Tony loses his grasp on the table
and slithers along the floor away from Harry still clinging to the hammock.
Harry pulls himself out on to the deck as the ship lists behind him until he faces the black night sky.
The ship keels over to the starboard side then completes a hundred and eight degree turn.
The waves wash off.
In Washington a white sheet flutters in the breeze and a wheel turns.
There is not much movement elsewhere.
President Wilson looks up as he hears the noise of water.
The water up the tarmac swelled by the onrush from Chesapeake Bay thunders towards the city.
A wave brings a large aircraft carrier
it buries the whitehouse.
On the Antinov, Jackson fiddles with a radio on one of the cars in the loading bay.
Kate, in a parka, wanders over to him.
She opens the passenger door and settles down beside him.
He glances at her.
He turns to look at the radio again.
She gazes out of the windscreen.
Kate watches him
then turns her head away.
She takes her hand up to her cheek.
He blinks,
inclines his head and stares at the radio.
On Air Force One.
Anheuser walks over to the screen.
They turn to Professor West.
The Antinov cockpit.
Jackson and Yuri climb down the steps, leaving Gordon in the cockpit with Sasha.
In the cargo hold, Jackson hands Yuri life jackets.
Jackson leans on the steps and looks across at his sleeping family.
Still standing by the steps, Jackson wearily removes a life jacket from its container.
As he does so, his son Noah wakes
and looks over at him.
Jackson, taken by surprise, stares at Noah.
Jackson lowers his gaze and nods.
Father and son both nod.
They hug.
Kate wakes.
The Karpovs put on the life jackets.
the plane decends rapidly.
Both the Curtis children have their life jackets on.
Lily wears her winter hat.
The whole family group stares at one another.
They form a group hug.
Gordon watches from the steps.
He grasps onto the handrails.
They fly over mountains.
Jackson and Yuri are standing behind the others as the plane approaches to land.
Sasha struggles with the controls to keep the aircraft level
as the plane skims the ground JAckson and Yuri join the others.
In the cargo hold the two families run to a Bentley.
Jackson unbuckles it
and they all climb inside.
Gordon heaves a lever.
The cargo door opens
Gordon turns and heads for the steps.
The plane thumps against the ground.
Reaching the cargo hold, Gordon sprints between the rows of cars towards the open rear door.
Jackson inserts a key into the Bentley's dashboard.
he turns the key.
Jackson puts the car into the gear
and accelerates towards the cargo exit.
It shoots down the ramp and bumps on the glacier
As the plane continues landing the cars are tossed out of the cargo door
Bently Airbags has deployed.
Sasha gets the plane on the ground.
Sasah crosses himslef.
And closes his eyes.
It comes to stop as he opnes his eyes.
The plane comes perilously close to the drop.
Sasha breathes in then grins.
The grin is vanishing from his face as the plane starts to go down in a steep incline rapidly gaining speed.
It falls into an abyss and explodes
Watching from up above, Tamara sobs.
Jackson looks skywards when he hears the helicopter.
A fleet of helicopters carries wild animals in suspended harnesses.
The group on the ground stare.
Then Gordon starts to wave.
The Chinese crewmen on the helicopter see the group down below.
The helicopter lands
and a man in uniform rush outs to them
Yuri and the twins step forward.
Tamara is stopped.
The boys Yuri and Popi are on board on the helicopter.
The crew aboard the helicopter.
The helicopter speeds over mountains as morning sun throws light on the summits.
David and Laura sit together.
The helicopters make their way to the complex built deep into the mountains.
They approach the complex
The landing area bustles with people.
Hearing the corgies, Professor West turns and sees the Queen, struggling with her leads and holding onto her hat.
A bus zooms Anheuser and his group through the mountain, on an elevated track.
There are massive structures to the left with work going on the various arks.
Yuri is at the R3 Boarding gate
Gordon walks with Tamara.
They all stop.
Lily spots light.
They run down to a truck on the road.
Jackson lobs a stone at the vanishing truck.
As grandma in the back hears it.
Nema stops the truck and climbs out.
He looks back down the road to where Jackson stands arms raised.
They run to the truck.
On the ground Captain Michaels leads Anheuser's team across a walkway.
There are many other walkers with people crossing to the waiting arks.
Nora sees them and addresses Anheuser.
they spot the saudi prince and his family
Anheuser walks off with Michaels.
Nora pats Adrian's shoulder and follows them.
Crowds trudge along the Nampan Plateau.
Among them are Satnam and his family.
They stop and look around to see a gigantic tsunami heading for the coastline.
The huge waves tower over the Satnam and head straight for the refugees.
Adrian is shown into a cabin on the escape ship.
He glances around and picks up a goblet.
He takes his ringing mobile from his bag.
Leaving his phone switched on, Satnam crouches down and holds his son's face in his hands.
They're deep in prayer as the tidal wave comes closer.
Satnam and his wife hug their son between them as Adrian listens.
Adrian throws away goblet.
On the Arc brigde
Adrian rushes across the bridge to Scottie.
The images have called up.
Adrian turns to Anheuser.
They look at another screen.
Scottie hits a button.
The old watch at the screen and now reads 2 hours, 6 minutes and seconds.
Anheuser turns away.
After moving his spectacles closer to a group of people sitting at another bank of monitors.
A revised countdown appears on their screens.
Nema drives the truck with his grandparents in the cab with him.
In the back, Jackson is with is family, Gordon and Tamara.
Little Noah lies asleep, his head resting on Gordon's shoulder.
Gordon glances up and sees Jackson watching them.
Gordon stares ahead and speaks without looking at Jackson.
He turns his head.
They pass a sign utility gate east.
Nema stops the truck.
Tenzen opens the gate.
Nema looks over his shoulder.
She nudges the kids forward.
Kate spots Nema's grandma.
Tenzen glances up at Lily and Noah.
Then beckons them forward.
Yuri and the others are in the ship bay.
Yuri thumped the security guard as he looked behind.
The crowd pushes past and enters the bay.
Yuri overlooks the arc
Tenzen leads Kate, Jackson and the others towards the mountainside as it opens revealing the ship bays.
she calls on a passing science officer.
Tenzen leads everyone up a launch tower staircase.
On the bridge.
Jackson and Noah head up the lunchpad.
Noah stares up at the anchors dangling from a gigantic ship's hull.
The wind ruffles his hair.
Jackson grabs Noah and they hurry up towards the ark.
The Russian President is led onto an ark bridge by his interpreter.
He scans around.
Chancellor looks out over the loading bay.
Yuri leads a fast crowd running across the wide boarding platform.
As Tenzen and the others board the ship, Grandpa slips.
Jackson reacts and grabs his arm.
Tenzen nods to Jackson.
The crowd on the boarding platform reach a deep pit around the ark.
A man plummets into the pit and the crowd stops running.
On the ark bridge.
Outside the enormous rear life supports move into position.
Nearby, Jackson and the others walk in towards the hedge.
He looked down at the struggling crowd and the boarding platform below.
Yuri says something
From down there up from high on the hull Tamara spots Caesar on the ground.
inside the hatch Jackson holds a turch as Tenzen unwinds a seald shaft
Caesar makes it to Tamara as the outer hatch closes.
Yuti watches angrily
she sticks a finger up at him.
then the hatch slams shut.
Inside, Jackson, Gordon and the others shine torches as Tenzen shoulders a pneumatic drill.
Nema looks up hopefully as Tenzen pulls open a round hatch.
On the control bridge, Adriane and Laura watch horrified as members of the crowd outside plunge off the boarding platform into the pit.
With a deep frown, Adriane crosses the bridge.
Macarenka watches the screen on board his ark.
Anheuser shakes his head at Adriane.
Adriane looks down relieved.
Anheuser hangs his head.
Michaels picks up the phone on the control desk.
In a darkened corridor.
Tamara shines her torch on various animals in cages.
As the gates open, a hydraulic ceiling lowers above them, knocking Gordon and Tenzen off a ladder.
Jackson struggles to help the injured Tenzen and Gordon, who cling on just above grinding gears.
Gordon is dragged between the wheels
Uri stares up at the lowering gate.
He reaches up from the lower ledge, and tries to haul himself back onto the boarding platform.
Tanzen is trapped between the geards and the rapidly decending hydraulic ceiling
Jackson is trapped between a wire fence and the hydraulic ceiling.
Tenzen's drill has become tangled in the gears.
Sparks fly.
Jackson reaches out in desperation as the hydraulic wall draws near to the gate.
The gears grind into a haul.
The wall stops
hundereds of people leap onto the gate and board the Arc
Anheuser watches the chaos anxiously.
He looks around with a digital camera.
Flower petals blow from a bowl in the mountaintop monastery.
Lama looks up from his seat on the floor as the wind picks up.
he scans around
in the distance gigantic wall of water crashes it way between the pics of the snow covered mountains
Lama rings the monastery bell as the water quickly closes in.
The mountains are completely subsumed by the ocean.
The monastery is demolished by the wave.
More people rush on board the ark.
A boarding officer spots Uri struggling.
He runs to help.
From the platform Uri has hoisted Alec onto the rising, but Alec can't reach him.
With all his might, Uri grabs his legs and hurls him into the air.
Uri plunges into the pit and falls.
Two boarding officers drag the protesting boy onboard.
The coms officer spots a hydraulic malfunction preventing the gate from closing.
Adriane spots Lily and Noah on the monitor.
Dark, battling flood waters whipe out the air field and the mountains.
On the ark bridge.
The Ark office leads Adrian and Laura through the crowded hallway
The crew watch awestruck as the flood water clears the surrounding mountains.
The clock counts down from seconds as the water draws in.
The water hits the ark from a high end.
Anheuser glowers as the countdown tower hits zero.
Lights went off as the crashes water occluded the Arc
The crew are knocked over on the bridge.
The boarding officers and Uri's boys hurry away as water crashing in around it
water slams through a corridor knocking people over.
The crew re-man their controls.
he is in the floded corridor.
Nina tends to Tenzen who has injured his leg.
A door slams shut on Lily and Tamara
Tamara gets Lily and Caesar free, trapping herself in a flooding corridor.
On the bridge Anheuser spots a wrecked planning hovering through the crashing waves.
The huge jet barges on the water
They hit.
The plane cracks the anchor away.
The ark rises as the massive waves curl up and over the top.
A computer graphic shows the angle of the collision between the two arks
The Arks decends dramatically throwing the crowds in the hallway off their feet.
The ark dives headlong.
stuff crashes around in the corridor
Adrian and Laura find Lily.
on the bridge on a flat roof top they watche a computer image of Mount Everest.
Down in the geological bay connecting corridor.
Jackson, Kate, Noah, and Tibetans hear all this over the speaker.
up to his waist in the water, He walks away from the others.
Noah stares long and steadily at his father.
He kisses Noah,
and before Kate takes the boy away, he kisses her, too.
In flickering light he turns around and takes a deep breath.
Nina flashes a torchlight and screams for help as does Tamara in the anti-chamber.
Her face is pressed up against the grate as the water level rises and covers her.
Jackson swims into the hydraulic chamber and surfaces in an air pocket.
Kate tries to treat the injured Tenzen.
While she is distracted, Noah swims away.
Underwater Jackson swims using a torch for illumination.
He spots something.
Kate tends to Tenzen.
She turns and realizes Noah is nowhere to be seen.
She finds his jacket and then submerges herself under the water.
She surfaces.
The ark floats towards Everest.
Adriane turns on the monitor.
The monitor shows Jackson in the chamber struggling to free Tenzen's power drill.
Jackson looks up and sees a light and Noah.
Jackson surfaces.
Jackson dives back underwater.
Kate gapes and stares into the blackness as Tenzen addresses his family.
Tenzen shakes his head.
As the water level rises, Nina glances up and sees a giraffe beyond the grill in the ceiling.
The ark scrapes against the mountain as Jackson attempts to pry the power drill free.
Laura and Lily are buffeted by the shake.
As the ark approaches Everest, the fume from the hydraulic chamber is cut.
Noah joins his father underwater.
In the gloom, his torch beam shows the drill which is wrapped around the gears.
Father and son surface.
Jackson is underwater as the ark thumps into a glacier.
Jackson wrenches the cable free.
Gears start to turn.
and the gate starts to close.
He releases the drill,
Part of the mountain breaks in pieces as the ark moves ever closer to a collision.
It strikes Everest, and those on the bridge see an avalanche of snow decend.
The Ark moves away from the mount everest.
Noah surfaces on the hydraulics chamber in front of Kate.
Mother and son duck under the water.
They resurface.
Those on the bridge and in the zoological bay listen.
hanging on the pipes They look into the darkness.
A torchlight beam shines underwater.
Jackson surfaces.
Kate and Noah hug.
Anheuser looks around at the people on the bridge cheering and hugging one another.
Scotty embraces Professor West.
With Kate and Noah still hugging, Jackson glances across to Nina and Tenzen
and gets a thumbs up.
Jackson nods.
The group are still treading water.
The ark continues on its voyage away from the world's highest mountain.
Adriane works on a laptop in his quarters.
Laura sits behind him reading a book.
Adriane takes off his glasses and smiles.
She closes the book.
and smiles
They are both on their feet.
He walks over to her,
and they get so close to kiss.
He makes to move away.
She puts her arms around his neck and kisses him more intensely.
Lily spots little Caesar.
Alec Karpov hands Lily the dog.
Jackson approaches Kate.
As the massive door opens, hundreds of people stand staring out as daylight starts to flood the interior.
Lily holding Caesar, and Noah clutching his mom's hand are beside Kate with Jackson directly behind her.
Nina, Tenzen, and the grandparents are there, too.
They lead the way out onto the external deck.
People walk onto other decks which are spread all over the ark.
Helicopters fly overhead,
and the ark cruises over calm waters.
It's flanked by an ark on either side.
On the bridge, Professor West is working on a laptop.
He turns as Laura and Adrian enter.
On the crowded deck, the Curtis family lean on the safety rail.
She glances around quickly.
Jackson sees Kate grinning.
The three arks, leaving a wide wake behind them, move across the calm ocean under a sky of a few mottled clouds.
Clouds fill the screen and give way to the image of a globe.
As it slowly spins, the African continent becomes more and more prominent.
Guests gather for a wedding.
A young bridesmaid sits and watches.
The two girls walk back down the aisle.
The elder one admires herself in a mirror.
The bride's dress is ripped.
Jane gives a knowing smile and eyes the ribbon in Tess' hair.
Jane proudly holds the train of the ribbon repaired dress.
Carrying the bulky dress in a bag, adult Jane, in a formal purple dress, hurries out of the shop onto a busy New York street.
Pausing for breath on a street corner, another young woman walks up wearing the same purple dress.
Tess nudges her bored friend.
Jane rushes out of the ceremony.
She hurries over to the cab.
She starts getting changed in the back seat.
The cabby looks in his mirror.
A drive through the colorfully lit New York night pulling up below the brookyln bridge.
She gets out of the cab wearing a red sari.
She places a jeweled bindi on a friend's forehead.
Flinging herself back into the cab, she frantically starts changing again.
The cabby sneaks another look.
She's back at the first wedding.
A handsome, dark-haired guy who was at the ceremony watches her with raised eyebrows as she heads off in the cab again.
She's dancing.
First in her Indian dress.
Then after another dive for the cab, in her purple one.
After some energetic dancing, she emerges from another cab ride.
Once more in her Indian finery.
She kicks off the wrong shoes.
The cabby throws her the right ones.
She joins in some choreographed dancing.
Later on, she catches the sari in the cab door.
She helps both brides with their dresses as they sit on their toilets.
She gets back into the swing of the choreography, the Jewish Indian party.
Then rushes in disarray into the other wedding just as the bride and groom are stuffing cake into each other's mouths.
It's a bindi.
Jane smiles in delight, arms outstretched, as the bridal bouquet is thrown and sails straight towards her.
Then she's barged to the floor by an over-zealous competitor.
Everything goes black.
As Jane comes hazily to, the dark-haired guy is looking down at her.
She blinks up at him and touches a hand to her sore head as two other guests arrive.
She gives a tight smile.
She sways unsteadily, clutching her head.
The lights at the city twinkle in the night as the pair share a cab.
They sit as far apart as possible, a huge bunch of flowers between them.
She pays.
Kevin grabs the flowers.
The truck drives between them.
As Kevin sits in the cab smiling to himself, he looks down and notices Jane's filofax on the floor.
Looking thoughtful, he opens the filofax.
Inside, there's a photo of a couple kissing.
Every week contains weddings.
He closes the book and stares ahead.
At her apartment Jane is wrestling the evening's dresses into a closet filled to bursting with a colorful riot of party gowns.
She squeezes in every last bit of rebellious fabric and pushes backwards against the doors, forcing them closed.
The doors spring back open.
She grabs the papers and settles on the couch.
Its glow makes a dark silhouette of the towering city skyline and sunbathes the buildings lining Central Park as rush hour begins.
Kevin, carrying coffees, arrives at the offices of the New York Journal.
Crossing a street, Jane meets Casey getting out of a cab.
Casey proudly sports a man's white shirt.
They walk into their office reception.
Jane grins and heads for her cluttered desk.
He shows her the filofax.
She glares at him.
Jane is with Casey looking at photo layouts.
As Gina walks off, Jane looks exasperated.
Casey pulls a face.
Jane looks pained as ruggedly handsome George walks off.
Casey stalks off, leaving Jane sorting out some unruly adhesive notes.
Casey flashes Gina a false smile.
Casey flounces off.
A jumbo jet touches down, and in the airport, Jane smiles as cute blonde Tess arrives.
The sisters arrive at Jane's apartment.
Jane struggles with the luggage.
At night, in one of thousands of taxis, Kevin reads Jane's filofax.
Jane and Casey are at Gina's party in a busy, low lit club.
George saunters suavely over to them.
Jane walks breathlessly over to where George is drinking beer and chatting with friends.
Tess, in a shimmery dress, approaches from the other direction.
George spots her and grins, then clocks Jane.
As Jane approaches, her face falls, realizing that George and Tess are making a beeline for each other.
They smile as Jane frowns.
Jane fakes a smile as George catches her eye.
As Tess and George leave, Kevin walks up.
She looks stunned.
She hands him her drink, then turns and walks out of the club through a side door.
Kevin looks puzzled as she bashes a wall with her handbag.
She's in full view of a sedate dinner party.
Trying to regain her composure, she rejoins Kevin in the club, who's waiting, eyebrows raised.
She stares after Tess and George.
Later, a car drives past Jane's building.
She rushes to the front door, peers through the peephole, then flings it open.
She stomps back inside.
Jane switches on the light in the living room, its empty and she wanders anxiously up and down, then picks up a magazine from the couch, sits in a chair, thumbs through it distractedly.
She glances towards the front door.
She goes to the bathroom and moisturizes her hands, then does some work at her laptop.
Shuffling papers, she once again glances at the door.
She does some sit ups, then, in rubber gloves, cleans the cooker.
Jane struggles with her emotions.
Next day, the sisters arrive at Hell's hardware store.
Jane lets the door close on Tess.
Her father stares at Jane's agonized expression.
As Tess and George flirt in his office, Jane frowns, seeing Kevin's name in her filofax.
Jane dials Kevin's number.
Grinning, Kevin hangs up.
A youngster with a baseball glove comes in.
Pedro frowns.
They arrive at the Department of Parks and Recreation Youth Sports ground.
Jane stares at her.
Pedro, practicing his catching, grins at them from the baseball field.
Jane rolls her eyes in disbelief.
A large bunch of yellow flowers is delivered.
Jane hands them to Tess with a tight smile.
She brings a pile of paperwork to George's office.
She grins as he talks happily on the phone.
Her smile fades as she notices pictures of him and Tess on the desk.
They all have dinner at Jane's father's house.
As Tess chatters and the men smile, Jane unhappily stuffs her face with food.
At her apartment she catches Tess and George kissing on the couch.
Looking crushed, she leaves them to it and goes out again.
Attending a leather and bondage wedding, Jane, sporting a spiked leather collar, tries to appear in party mood.
She gamely flicks the heavy metal devil horns at George and Tess, who, grinning, do the same.
As they kiss, Jane looks mortified.
Casey catches her eye, looks over at the lovebirds.
George holds up two ties for her approval.
He nods, tight-lipped, as she knots the tie.
She smiles after him and heads back to her desk.
In the evening at the office, Jane tidies away some files on George's desk.
Underneath, she finds his wallet.
Consulting his appointments, she heaves a sigh and leaves.
A taxi pulls up outside a restaurant and Jane gets out.
It's Tess' turn to look stunned.
Jane is at a loss.
There's a small white box tucked in the dog's collar.
The box contains a diamond ring.
He slips the ring on her finger and they kiss as Jane stands helplessly nearby.
It's a wedding dress.
Jane meets up with Kevin in a bar.
She looks pleased with herself.
He takes her hand.
Jane stares in shock across the Central Park boating lake.
They go back to their yoga.
There's a meeting at the New Warsaw bakery.
It's Kevin clapping.
She grabs Kevin's arm.
Jane looks tearful, but pulls herself together.
Kevin looks down a street past a shop and up the steps to Jane's building.
He slips in as another resident comes out.
Jane is in the kitchen.
She puts down the cup she's washing and goes to the door and sees Kevin through the peephole.
Jane looks exasperated.
Kevin, eyes closed, hopes he hasn't gone too far.
He talks into a dictaphone.
His jaw drops in astonishment.
He's spotted the closet full of dresses.
She rushes after him, barging him out of the way to close the closet doors.
She strides off to put on the shiny dark green dress.
He shakes his head in disbelief and takes a photo of the closet.
Jane rolls her eyes self-consciously.
She pulls out a yellow dress with pleats and orange flowers.
One bridesmaid falls over.
Next, a twirly orange number.
It's a Japanese style kimono.
They bow to each other and Kevin takes a photo.
At the wedding, Jane crouches down to be the same height as the Japanese bridesmaids.
There's one with long black gloves and even a man's evening suit.
Jane does a high-stepping routine with a top hat and sashays in pink floral print.
There's a bright one like yellow and pink candy floss, and Kevin gets caught up in a white skirt like a giant snowflake, with dazzling yellow.
The wedding is on a lawn overlooking the ocean.
The bridesmaids wear tiny pink strapless mini-dresses.
Jane poses with the heavily made up bride and a much older, open-shirted groom.
She poses in gauzy red, shiny candy pink and flowery baby blue as Kevin lounges on the couch taking pictures.
He finds a cowboy hat with a red flower on the brim.
At that wedding, Jane is on a horse that ends up facing the wrong way for the photo.
He finds a pair of flippers.
At the underwater wedding, Jane smiles in floral bathing cap as the bride and groom share a watery kiss.
He reaches for the dictaphone.
He looks awkward at catching her off guard, looking sad and vulnerable.
They sit opposite one another, squirming in uncomfortable silence.
Later, Jane, still looking unhappy, hangs the dresses back in the closet.
On a sunny day, Jane arrives at Tess' apartment.
Jane becomes suspicious as Tess stands blocking the doorway.
Pedro is vacuuming and dancing.
Jane looks appalled.
Kevin is at work.
Kevin watches Maureen walk off, shaking his head.
Later, he and Jane are scanning the bar codes on items for the wedding list.
He scans some china penguins.
She looks mortified.
He grins and brandishes the scanner.
High above the busy streets at the New York Journal, Kevin approaches Maureen's office.
He looks horrified.
Jane hurries to meet George on the terrace of the boat house.
Back at the paper, Kevin picks up the phone.
Kevin arrives, stares at Jane, then starts to sneak off.
George spots him.
Kevin turns, feigning surprise.
Jane's smile fades.
Headlights blazing, the aging Volvo speeds through the rainy night.
The car swerves alarmingly.
The car slides backwards down a grassy slope, just missing a tree.
Coming to a halt, they sit frozen in shock.
Tires spin, digging into the wet ground.
They stick their cell phones out of the windows trying to get a signal.
They sit not looking at each other.
Kevin and Jane arrive soaking wet at a bar.
Jane checks the public telephone, but indicates with a roll of her eyes that it's not working.
They head to the bar.
He flops onto a barstool.
Two empty glasses hit the bar.
She grins at him.
She gawks at him.
It's his turn to be taken aback.
They grin tipsily.
The locals start to enjoy their goofy performance.
They're up on the bar with everybody gathered round, singing and urging them on.
Jane is bear foot and Kevin keeps on coming up with wacky dance moves.
Kevin jumps down, leaving Jane dancing wildly to the delight of the crowd.
Kevin then helps her down.
She lurches drunkenly, and he stops her from falling.
They stare in each others' eyes, then Jane kisses him hard and passionately.
They carry on kissing in the Volvo and tearing off each others' soaking wet clothes.
The next day, Kevin strolls down the grassy slope carrying two coffees.
The early sun reflects off the windows, and Jane is still asleep in the mud-spattered car.
He looks around, acting nonchalant.
They go to a diner.
Kevin's expression freezes.
Jane crumples up the paper, throws it at Kevin, and leaves.
She stares at him with bitter disappointment, then turns on her heel and leaves.
He walks back to the diner, his face in his hands.
Later, he strides into the newspaper offices and approaches Maureen.
He leaves, angry and frustrated.
Jane arrives at her apartment.
She overturns a chair.
She throws the phone, screws up the paper, and stomps on it.
Jane sits staring miserably into space.
At the office, she picks up her messages.
She runs her hands through her shoulder-length hair and throws her arms defensively.
Casey comes in.
They exchange a worried look, and Jane walks slowly towards George's office.
He places a caring hand on her shoulder to escort her out.
Tess is at the bridal shop.
Jane is puzzled.
Jane walks over to Tess looking horrified.
Tess looks puzzled as Jane walks out.
Tess pouts and flounces back to her fitting room, tripping over her hem as she goes.
As lights begin to decorate the evening cityscape, a taxi drops Jane off at the restaurant where guests are gathering for the engagement party.
She is accosted by a smartly dressed older lady.
The woman is puzzled, not sure what she just heard.
Having downed Casey's drink, Jane heads for Tess and George.
Jane stares challengingly at Tess.
She stuffs the whole sausage roll into her mouth at once.
Tess looks worried as Jane strides off, then turns and grins at her.
Tess' face freezes.
Jane looks her in the eye, then turns and picks up a folder from the table behind her.
Casey looks bored.
Tess smiles at George.
Cute baby pictures of the couple fill the screen.
Young George pets a goat.
Tess dangles a cat by its hind legs.
George sports academic robes.
Cheerleader Tess flirts with footballers.
George helps at a soup kitchen.
Bikini-wearing Tess gets soaked at a car wash.
He's at the United Nations.
She's in Europe with two guys.
George helps with an animal charity.
Tess tucks into a helping of ribs.
George looks unhappy as slides show him with his proud parents.
Then Tess, in a fight, grimacing at a baby and being afraid of George's dog.
Behind the now not-so-happy couple, Casey gets to her feet.
Jane looks miserable.
Tess runs up.
Jane opens her mouth, but no sound comes out.
She stands awkwardly, biting her lip, her eyes brimming with tears.
Casey feels her friend's pain as Jane hurries out of the restaurant.
Kevin, lurking in the background, follows her out.
She looks at him with wide, tear-filled eyes.
He waits for a reaction, turns to walk away, then stops and comes back again.
He holds up a PDA phone with a ribbon on it.
He places it in her hand, gives her a lingering look, then walks away.
Jane watches him go with a sad half smile.
She looks down at the gift in her hand and chokes back more tears.
She arrives back at her apartment and places her bag and keys on the hall table.
She idly toys with a flower in one of the many vases which occupy every available surface.
Kevin is at his desk staring gloomily into space as Maureen walks up.
He gives a rueful smile and sinks back thoughtfully into his chair.
Jane is at her father's store.
Tess freezes as she notices Jane.
Jane can't meet Tess' furious gaze.
Jane is baffled.
Sitting, shoulders hunched on the store counter, Jane stares dejectedly at the floor.
Back at her apartment, she is idly brushing her teeth when she wanders out of the bathroom and catches sight of the closet full of dresses.
She throws open the closet and starts flinging the dresses out into the hall.
Soon she is stuffing the last dress into one of several black plastic bean bags.
She looks at the empty closet, grins, and closes the doors.
Later she is at the office.
George's eyes widen as she walks in wearing a stylish black dress.
She stares at him wide-eyed.
He grabs her as she walks past and they kiss.
She eyes him curiously.
They kiss again, but Jane opens her eyes, frowns, and breaks away.
It's the ringtone of her PDA phone.
She gets it out of her handbag and looks at George.
She smiles and hurries away to the offices at The New York Journal.
She hurriedly jumps into the cab, then notices it's the same driver as the night of the two weddings.
She smiles as they join the nighttime traffic.
They pull up beside an illuminated sign announcing the wedding reception.
On the brightly decorated peer, Kevin is among the guests.
Jane runs down the pier, arriving at the end just as the gangplank is being removed from the party boat.
She takes a flying leap onto the deck, just managing to stay upright.
Pleased with herself, she walks off but misses a step.
She moves off through the guests, searching for Kevin.
The bride and groom are dancing when the bride spots Jane.
The brightly lit boat cruises downriver.
Kevin looks around in surprise.
Kevin heaves a deep sigh.
As she steps off the stage, the guests make way for her.
Kevin steps out in front of her.
He grins.
With a delighted smile, she walks into his arms and they kiss.
They remain wrapped in each other's arms as the smiling reception guests carry on with the party.
The wedding boat cruises gently in front of the twinkling backdrop of the towering city lights.
One year later, and wedding guests are gathering on a beach.
Kevin's colleague runs up to bridesmaid Casey.
Tess is handing out orders of service when George and Pedro arrive.
They smile and look into each other's eyes.
The wedding party is led in by Casey and Tess in figure- hugging cream dresses, carrying bouquets of yellow and white flowers.
Groom Kevin sees Casey smiling at his friend.
He shoots him an inquiring glance.
The answer is hopefully raised eyebrows.
Tess and George smile broadly at each other.
The guests stand as Jane, in a simple white dress, is escorted in by her father.
Kevin can't take his eyes off Jane, who, smiling radiantly, kisses her dad on the cheek.
The wedding couples stand face to face.
Twenty-seven former brides have lined up wearing the dresses from Jane's closet.
They kiss then turn towards their guests, smiling happily.
The credits appear in amongst headlines in the paper.
The light beams from a torch held aloft by a statuesque woman wearing Grecian style robes.
The logo fades away to black.
A few flakes of snow gently flutter out of a night sky past a Christmas Tree made of fairy lights atop an establishment advertising itself as O'Hara's Pub.
A few people wander down the street, clutching gifts for their loved ones.
Inside the pub, various groups of friends, families, and work colleagues have gathered together for a festive drink and to exchange presents.
They chat and laugh, enjoying the Christmas spirit.
At the far end of the bar, a seedy, unshaven man in his late 40s, wearing a Santa costume, sits alone, enjoying two glasses of an entirely different kind of spirit.
Santa cuts a lonely figure as he sucks on a cigarette and calls over to the barman.
Santa stares sadly at a group of people drinking a toast.
Santa lurches unsteadily up a snow-filled back alley.
He leans against the wall and throws up.
In a brightly lit shopping mall, a mother and her young children ride up an escalator.
At the top one of the children stares in wonder at the lavage Santa's grotto that's been constructed.
In the grotto dressed as an elf hands a photo of a girl and Santa to her mother.
Santa, at work
The girl goes off and a boy of about eight walks up and sits on Santa's knee.
Santa still looks seedy but has at least bothered to put his white beard on.
He shoves the boy away.
Little later, Santa wets himself as his little helper wanders over.
Santa pulls down his beard and swigs from a bottle of grog, then examines his pants.
His little helper shakes his head despairingly.
The security guard says farewell to the last shoppers.
As Santa shuffles off, the guard keys a code into an alarm system.
Up in the grotto, three snowmen sit behind statues of Mary and the baby Jesus in his crib.
The smallest snowman suddenly jumps up, but after a quick look to see the coast is clear, runs off, knocking Mary and Jesus over in the process.
The snowman slides down between the escalators as the alarm system continues its arming countdown.
He crashes into a display at the bottom and trots up to run through the shop.
The snowman pulls the arm off of a mannequin as he goes.
He uses the arm to reach up and switch off the alarm before it can ON.
The snowman pulls his head off, revealing a Santa's profusely sweating little helper.
Now in regular clothes, Santa's little helper opens a back door and finds Santa surrounded by empty beer cans.
The elf shakes his head sadly.
Santa mooches inside past his less than impressed elf.
In the store's vault, Santa uses a heavy drill to bore through the door of a locked safe.
Out on the shop floor of the store, the elf walks along towing a small hand cart, Santa pulls out the drill from the safe door.
On the shop floor, his little helper helps himself to an expensive handbag from a display cabinet, then some women's designer shoes, all of which are detailed on a list.
He checks his list while eyeing a string of pearls in a cabinet, and uses a bead rack to smash it open.
Later he joins Santa in the vault, and finds Santa peering through the hole he drilled.
Santa uses a chisel.
He opens the safe and wards of notes spil out onto the floor.
An oriental woman sits at the wheel of a van as Santa and his little helper climb in the back with their booty.
She turns to the elf.
The woman puts her foot on the accelerator, and the van speeds off throwing Santa and the elf backwards.
Later Santa, who in less seasonal times goes by the name of Willie, dances with Marcus, the elf in a bar.
Wille puts down Marcus on a bar stool by the counter.
and sits down beside him.
He calls over to the barmaid.
The barmaid serves them.
Willie and Marcus raise their glasses.
They down their drinks and set the glasses back down on the counter.
Marcus gives Willie a dubious look.
Marcus looks expectantly at Willie, who considers, and then turns to the barmaid.
He turns back to Marcus with a half smile.
He looks down doubtfully at his empty glass.
 A plethora of beautiful bikini-clad women adorn the sand.
Willie, now in a Hawaiian shirt, stands behind the counter of a beachfront bar, chopping up some lemons and limes.
He puts them under the counter and pours a generous measure of vodka into a tumbler.
As he does so, an irate man clutching a tray of glasses joins him behind the counter.
Willie slurps at the drink.
The barman punches him in the guts and tosses him over the counter.
Wille throws a vodka bottle at the barman.
And misses it.
The barman leaps over the counter, and Willie runs for it.
Willie does as suggested.
Sometime later he's sitting alone having a good leech at some more bikini clad lovelies playing volleyball.
He licks his lips as he admires their well-toned backsides and sips from a bottle of beer.
The next morning, Willie is asleep on his bed in a not-so- awful, not-so-great apartment.
He reaches over to the clock radio which is surrounded by last night's empties and fumbles for the off button, unable to find it he rips it out of its socket.
Having smashed the clock and several empties, he sits down on the bed, and, in need of refreshment, drinks from a half-full bottle with a cigarette end floating about it in.
A smart convertible pulls up at a car valeting serviced by the beach.
Willies strolls up as the driver hands over the keys.
The young guy from the valet service drives off with the convertible and Willie walks over to a board holding the car keys.
He looks around then picks up several of the keys.
He saunters through the parking lot pressing the remotes and cars flash and unlock.
Willie tosses the keys away nonchalantly and keeps unlocking.
He walks up to one of the cars he's just unlocked, then presses another remote and turns to see a blue sports convertible.
His eyes brighten and he goes for that.
He climbs in and, opening the glove compartment, he takes out the tax disk and reads the address on it.
He replaces the disk, starts engine, and drives away.
The car is parked outside a grand mansion with a pillared entranceway.
Inside, Willie climbs an elegant marble staircase toward a balustrated balcony.
Upstairs, in a smart kitchen, he drinks milk from the bottle, then replaces it in the well-stocked fridge.
He munches on a chicken leg and sits on the toilet.
Later he fiddles with the handle of the un-flushing toilet.
He stands up and looks at it.
He tosses the chicken leg down the pan as he saunters aimlessly down the hallway, he tips oil paintings off the wall.
On a wood panelled wall he sees a large portrait of a boy with dark hair.
He peeks behind the painting, then removes it from the wall revealing a safe.
He sticks his ear to the safe and starts to turn the combination lock.
His eyes catch site of a companion set by the fireplace.
From it, he selects the poker and attacks the safe.
He finds lots of money.
At an exotic club, he ignores the girl writhing in front of him and rubs a scratch card.
He looks up as she crawls away.
The girl moves towards a second exotic dancer on stage in front of another punter.
Willie scratches away.
A scantily-clad waitress brings beer to him
He places a scratch card and in the bikini bottoms.
Later, she follows him into his apartment.
She wanders away as Willie winds back through his phone messages.
Marcus and Wille are once again in their festive elf and Santa costumes, as they strode through a heat shimmer in a car park.
Willie has pulled his beer down as a fag dangles from the corner of his mouth.
He clutches a bottle of dog in his left hand as he strolls along and removes the cigarette from his mouth and takes a good pull on his bottle draining it of its contents.
He then lobs the bottle over his shoulder and it smashes on a Mercedes windscreen.
Unconcerned, Willie ambles after Marcus towards a mall inside a Manager deals with an irritate Santa.
Harrison sees Willie and Marcus.
He gazes lustly after her through his cigarette smoke.
Marcus winces.
Marcus shoves Willie.
In an office, Bob sits with a black guy who takes a gargantuan drag on a cigarette.
The security chief eyes Bob.
The chief peels an orange.
Down in front of the grotto, Marcus works a crowd of kids.
Santa's chair is conspicuously empty.
Marcus turns to a gum-chewing female helper.
Marcus rolls his eyes, shakes his head, then turns to the kids.
Marcus goes backstage and finds Santa comatose.
He wakes him roughly.
Santa swigs his grog as Marcus goes out front where kids are lined up.
Inside the grotto.
A fat kid with an ice cream.
The fat kid takes a deep breath and sneezes over Santa.
A small girl sits on snotty Santa's knee.
A boy with long hair sits on his knee.
He shoos the boy away and looks over at Marcus.
A bus pulls up at a bus stop near some cool skaterat kids.
The bus door open and a fat boy with curly blonde hair steps off.
The skaterats clock him.
Fat Ass tries to look dignified.
He walks on.
The skaterat throws a tin which bounces off Fat Ass's hand.
Eyes front, Fat Ass waddles on towards the mall.
Inside, he's in the grotto.
Santa impatiently munches nuts.
Marcus leads Fat Ass over to surly Santa and he sits on his knee.
Fat Ass stares at him.
He's got boogies dangling from his paunchy nose.
He pulls his beard.
At the end of the day, Fat Ass is sitting in the car park outside the mall as Willie and Marcus come out.
Willie gives Marcus the finger as he walks away across the car park.
Fat Ass watches him go.
Still in his Santa suit, Willie sits alone at the counter in a bar and lights a cigarette.
He chews some gum and looks resentfully around the bar.
He takes in the usual collection of festive social drinkers out enjoying a Christmas drink.
He drags on his cigarette and his gaze falls on a bald, goatee-bearded Indian guy giving him the evil eye across the bar.
Willie stares back at him.
The Indian guy keeps his malevolent gaze on Willie and looks away.
The barmaid comes over to join them and sniffs his empty glass.
The barmaid refills his glass and gives him a sunny smile.
He knocks back his drink.
She frowns, then smiles.
The barmaid grins and laughs.
She pours out a shot for herself as well as Willie's.
They knock their drinks back, and Willie puffs on his cigarette.
She nods and looks at his glass.
She pours him another shot, and then one for herself.
They down them in one.
She gives him a coy look.
And he does, in his beaten up old car.
After the festive fornication, Willie leans against the car having a smoke.
She gets out of the car and faces him.
He half smiles and nods.
She gives him a smile and heads off.
Once she's gone, the moody looking Indian guy from the bar runs over and shoves Willie.
Curly head Fat Ass pulls Mr. Not Gay off Willie.
Mr. Not Gay marches off into the night.
Willie catches his breath and turns to Fat Ass.
Fat Ass turns to him.
Sometime later Wille gives fat ass a lift and left home in his knacker old car.
Sitting in the passenger seat, the kid stares at him and smiles warmly.Wille looks away from it.
Apparently unmoved, the kid keeps staring at Willie.
Willie turns off his engine and one working headlight, then gets out of the car with the kid.
Willie admires the affluent suburban house they're in front of.
Willie frowns.
As the kid unlocks the door, Willie pulls out a cotch and puts on a black balaclava.
Inside, Grandma is watching a TV program featuring dancing fruit.
Grandma walks past Willie, apparently unmoved by the fact that Santa is wearing a black balaclava.
Willie turns to the kid.
The kid nods.
Willie pulls up his balaclava.
He sure does.
Willie opens it and removes wads of cash and a passport.
Willie shuts the safe and goes and sits down in an armchair.
The credulous kid beams at him.
The very nice BMW which Wille drives away in.
The next day at the mall, Bob, the manager, is doing his rounds.
He strolls through a woman's wear shop for larger ladies.
Some noise is emanating from the changing room catches attention.
Bob decides to go and investigate.
Bob looks under a cubicle door and sees a woman's feet and, behind them, a man's with red Santa pants at his ankles.
In Bob's office.
Marcus gives Bob a reproachful look and takes a candy from a jar on his desk as he goes.
Later, Marcus wanders through a restaurant in the mall sipping a coke.
He spots Willie putting the moves on a hot-bodied blonde at a pinball machine.
Wille thrusts his crotch into the blonde.
The BMW.
As he opens the car door, a pile of empties spill out.
 He drives off crashing them on his wheels.
Bob is with Gin, the security chief.
Gin eats an orange.
Bob winces at the phrase.
Gin munches on his orange and regards bespectacled Bob, who looks away thoughtfully.
That night, Willie drives a seven series BMW in through the gates of the motel.
He sees someone with a torch is in his room.
He kills the lights of the car.
She takes the strawberry blonde wig off and comes over.
On the phone.
Willie puts his stuff down on a bed and begins taking off his fake snow-covered boots.
He gets off the bed and goes over to a wardrobe.
The kid watches Willie in the bath.
The kid blinks a couple of times.
Willie lies in bed, the kid hovering at the bedside.
The next morning, Willie is still asleep in bed.
The kid comes in, clutching a glass of orange juice and an advent calendar.
Gradually, Willie surfaces from his slumber.
He sits up and takes the glass.
He gives the kid a look and puts the glass down.
The kid climbs on to the bed.
He settles beside Willie and opens the relevant door on the calendar, then reads what's written on the back of the door.
The kid gives a doubtful looking Willie the door.
He knocks the chocolate out of the calendar.
He does and turns to Willie.
The kid gets off the bed.
Willie looks dubiously at the door off the calendar.
At lunchtime, he is eating with Marcus and his oriental girlfriend, Lois, at a restaurant in the mall.
Marcus regards him with thinly-veiled contempt.
Willie masticates a massive mouthful of salad and glares vainfully at Marcus.
Lois and Marcus head off.
A mom and her young son spot Willie in his Santa suit.
Jimmy's mother looks at Willie expectantly as she holds the hand of the sulky boy by her side.
Jimmy's mum scoops him up and hurries away, leaving dear old Santa to his salad.
Out in the shops, Lois scrutinizes a swatch of fabric and tries on a pair of designer sunglasses.
She moves on and looks over a mink stole with a very critical eye.
Having decided it's not too bad, she notes it down on her shopping list.
Detecting a possible sale, a saleswoman comes over to her.
Again, Gin, the security chief, walks up behind a boy pursuing a shelf of video games.
Gin turns back to the boy.
Back at his new digs, Willie is playing checkers with the kid.
The kid moves a piece, keeping his finger on it.
Uncertain, he moves it back again.
Willie eyes the kid a little impatiently.
The kid moves another counter, but still keeps a pudgy finger on it, and looks at Willie, then changes his mind and moves it back.
Willie watches as the kid moves a third piece but still keeps his finger on the counter.
The kid removes his finger.
Then, before Willie can move, changes his mind and puts the counter back where it was.
Willie struggles to contain his irritation.
The kid quickly moves one of his pieces, taking three of Willie's, and reaching the far end of the board at the same time.
Willie glares and throws the board in the air.
The kid stares placidly at him.
The kid is unruffled.
Willie opens the door to a balding man.
He proffers his hand.
Willie glances at the kid.
He hands Willie some paperwork.
As Grandma nods off in front of the TV, Willie is outside entertaining the barmaid in the hot tub.
Still wearing his festive red cap, Willie energetically humps Sue, the barmaid up against the side of the hot tub putting in smokes and foam.
Afterwards, in the living room, he pours himself a straight vodka and her one with orange.
They sit on the sofa together.
He hands her her glass, and they each take a swig of their respective drinks.
She sits back and smiles.
She laughs to herself, and he nods off.
She looks a little bit disappointed.
Later Wille accompanies her to the front door and sees her out.
She gives him a kiss and trips over the front step.
She heads off into the night.
Willie shuts the front door and, vodka bottle in hand, reaches over to the hall table where the kids advent calendar is lying.
He picks up the calendar and puts the bottle down on the table.
He then proceeds to tear open the remaining doors on the calendar and scarf the chocolate inside.
Calendar ruined, chocolate eaten, he picks up the vodka bottle and lurches towards the lounge.
He stops in the doorway and drains the bottle of its remaining contents, which is about a quarter.
He belches, falls backwards, and lies unconscious on the hall carpet.
The next morning he is roused by a distressed kid and is unfazed as his grandma.
The kid's hand is covered in blood.
Willie follows him to the kitchen where he puts the hand under the tap.
He pours vodka on the cut.
Willie turns the tap off, takes a slug of vodka, and walks back into the hall.
Willie looks slightly uneasy.
Then he spots the tattered remains of the advent calendar lying on the hall table.
Later that morning, Willie drives the BMW into the deserted car park.
Marcus is standing beside a green van waiting for him.
They open the back of the van, and Marcus irritably hands Willie an empty Santa sack.
Willie shakes his head.
He puts a drill in the gift-wrapped box.
The gift-wrapped safe-breaking equipment loaded into the sack, Willie and Marcus head for the mall.
Outside a door, a security guard is on duty.
The tall, blonde security guard checks his watch.
In the back room Willie puts the sack down, and Marcus points to an air conditioning vent.
Marcus takes the cover off the vent and clamors into the duct.
Clutching a torch, he crawls along it.
A man in an office looks up at the duct as noises emanate from it.
Another woman working at her desk looks up, as does a woman at the next desk.
The woman turns around, looks at the duct, shrugs, and gets on with her work.
Marcus arrives at a vent and looks out into a security office full of monitors.
He looks at the equipment and makes some notes on a pad.
Gin is having a pedicure.
He answers his phone.
Roger Merriman, the kid's dad, is in prison.
Gin walks into the prison visitors room where balding, bespectacled Roger is sitting.
Gin nods his head and gets up.
Roger looks confused.
Willie cooks for the kid and Grandma.
He serves it up.
He spoons a dollop onto it.
He turns back to the stove and flips the bologna.
The kid heads off to get it.
Willie serves up a plate of North Pole-style fried bologna for himself and puts it on the breakfast bar.
The kid hands it to him.
He hands it back to the kid who struggles to open the appropriate door.
Rather as if someone might have already opened it and then stuck it back down with a bit too much adhesive.
Willie watches out of the corner of his eye as the kid finds a cheap sweet inside.
Bob is with Gin, who's mixing himself a dose of Fibracell stool softener.
Bob winces.
Gin slurps his stool softener and grimaces.
The bus pulls up outside the mall and the skaterats see the kid getting off at the stop.
The kid sees them and hesitates for a moment.
Then, eyes front, keeps walking down the street.
The skate rats follow in, close behind him, their interest clearly malicious.
They get him and they grot him.
The boy wanders off and Santa scratches his own ass.
The kid appears, his pants around his armpits.
Marcus heads off.
Willie looks at the kid.
Willie stares incredulously at the kid for a moment then shakes his head.
The kid just stares at him.
The kid walks away still with his underpants up around his armpits.
Willie watches him go with a doleful expression.
Willie turns back to Marcus who, for an elf, is staring at him in a very deadpan way.
Gin is the next in line.
Gin, Willy, and Marcus in a bar.
Marcus shifts uneasily.
Marcus leans forward.
Marcus glances at Willie and rubs his chin thoughtfully.
Gin gets up from the table and goes.
Marcus and Willie regard each other.
Willie resignedly rests his head on his hand while Marcus slips into a brooding silence.
The next day, a very large queue of excited children and their mothers has formed at the western-themed Christmas Corral Grotto.
A semi-comatose Santa is on his way as he lies on the escalator clutching a broken bottle.
Marcus, back in elf guise, is trying to calm the kids.
At the top of the escalator, Santa drunkenly gets to his feet and lurches slowly towards the grotto, broken bottle still in hand.
Marcus shakes his head as Santa makes his way into the grotto, bumping into one of the kids as he does so.
In his state of extreme over-refreshment, he keels over and collapses on top of a fake cactus and a sack of presents.
The kids and moms gasp as Santa rallies and gets on his feet, only to fall over a life-size model donkey.
He's falling on his back.
He sees a second donkey going over.
He scrambles to his feet and slugs the donkey with a big right hook, knocking its head off.
He then punches and kicks the donkey's body to bits in a fine display of drunken violence.
The moms hurriedly usher their offspring away as Gin strides up.
Gin drops Willie.
Marcus shoves Gin contemptuously in the leg and marches off.
and drags Willie away.
Later on, Willie is back at the kid's house in the garage.
He sits in Roger's BMW with the engine running, having first run a hose from the exhaust pipe into the driver's window in order to commit a seasonal suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning.
The kid walks into the garage and sees him.
Willie's head lolls to one side as he inhales the noxious fumes.
The kid walks over to the car and looks in through the driver's window.
Willie moves slightly.
Willie raises his head a little and looks at the kid.
The kid turns and makes to go out of the garage.
Willie winds the driver's window down and hands the kid a letter.
He sees the kid has got a black eye.
Later, Willie is smashing into the chief skaterat's face.
He turns to the rest of the gang.
Two other kids, on bikes, watch astounded as Santa administers the festive beating.
Back at the mall, Marcus and Willie are in the locker rooms after a hard day dishing out presents.
Marcus gets changed out of his elf gear while Willie, in contemplative mood, sits on a bench and sucks on a bottle of gut rot.
Marcus looks incredulously at Willie who drags on a fag.
In a boxing occa.
He's talking to the kid.
Marcus is his opponent.
Marcus looks him over.
The kid steps forward and kicks Marcus in the crotch, doubling him up.
He punches the kid low.
He whacks Wille in the balls too.
He hits Marcus in the nuts and all three combatants lie, writhing in agony, on the canvas.
Willie turns to the kid.
They kick at each other.
That night, Grandma has collapsed in front of the TV in the lounge when Willie and Sue come in, they see her.
Granny lies back on the sofa, deathly still, with her mouth agape.
They walk a little closer.
Willie goes over to her.
Sue looks on anxiously as Willie bends over Granny.
Willie looks round at Sue.
He holds his hand in front of her mouth then puts his head to her chest to listen for a heartbeat.
Granny suddenly comes to.
Later on, in a bedroom, a black rug is spread out on the floor.
On it lies odd discarded clothes.
Nearby, Sue lies on her back in her bra and jeans.
A bare-chested Willie sits astride her, wearing his jeans and a Santa hat.
He leans down and seductively licks from her navel up to her bra.
He then leans forward and kisses her.
He kisses his way back down her body and grips her pants between his teeth and pulls on them.
As he does so, the kid comes in through the door.
He hands Willie a roughly carved bit of wood with a ribbon round it.
Mystified, Willie looks at it.
He holds up his injured hand.
Willie looks moved.
She props herself up on her elbows.
Willie stares at the pickle.
Sue smiles.
He stares at her.
He looks at her and nods to himself.
He smiles and shrugs.
The next morning, Willie is back in his Santa gear and rooting around in the fridge in the kitchen when the kid runs in.
Willie takes the report card.
Willie puts the report card down.
Willie stops buttering toast.
Thurman looks down sadly.
Willie angrily throws down his knife.
Willie is struck dumb.
Thurman picks up his report card and heads out of the kitchen.
Willie watches him go, a thoughtful expression crossing his face.
At night Marcus and Lois sit in the van in the deserted mall car park watching the staff entrance.
They see Gin come out.
Marcus and Lois watches as Gin gets in his big Chevrolet car and drives off.
Gin drives down a deserted unlit road.
Up ahead he sees a light swinging from side to side.The vans up the road side.
 The vans up the road side.
As he gets closer, he sees it's Marcus waving a torch.
Gin stops in front of Marcus, who moves his Stetson and gets out of the car with a wary expression.
He shakes his head wierdly.
Marcus gives him a helpless look.
Gin heads back to his car and Marcus smiles.
Gin lifts the bonnet of his Chevy.
Bonnet up, Gin steps back from the car.
Marcus steps forward with the jump leads but can't reach the battery.
Marcus backs away from between the car and the van as Lois starts the van up.
Gin leans back against the grill of the Chevy and lights himself a smoke.
Marcus nods to Lois and she drops the van into gear, hits the gas, and crushes Gin between the two vechicles.
Lois reverses and Gin slithers down the grill of the Chevy onto the ground.
 Marcus walks up to him.
Marcus sighs and walks to the van.
He removes the jump start cables from the van, returns to Gin and clips them onto his ears.
Back at Thurman's, Willie opens the front door to Sue, who's got a bag of groceries.
He eyes her figure appreciatively.
In the kitchen, Thurman and Willie make necklaces out of pieces of popcorn.
She adds it to a big bowl.
In the hall, Sue stands on a chair to put decorations on the tree.
Willie stares, mesmerized by her backside, and begins fondling it.
She pushes his hand away, so he reaches up and unzips the back of her skirt.
She quickly does it back up and gives Willie a kiss.
In the lounge, Grandma has conked out on the sofa.
Sue carefully removes her slippers and then peels off her sheer, hold-up socks.
She hands one to Willie, and they pin the socks up at the fireplace.
They exchange a smile and leave Grandma to slumber on.
Later, Willie is at the front of the house lighting the candle bags Herb had come around organizing.
Thurmond comes out of the house and walks over to Willie as one of the bags catches alight.
Willie stamps out the blazing bag.
Willie looks around awkwardly.
Thurmond looks down sadly, and Willie relents.
Bemused Willie shakes his hand.
Thurmond hurries off into the house, and Willie allows himself a faint smile.
Once Thurmond is gone, Willie turns around and goes back to lighting the candle bags.
In the mall, all the security guard bids the last shoppers farewell.
Lois is amongst the shoppers.
She makes a show of looking at a price tag on a table laden with sweaters, and, at the same time, pushes the table into a new position.
She makes a minor adjust to its position and heads off.
Marcus and Willie are in the back room.
A ladder leads up to the air vent.
Willie snaps a popper.
Marcus glares at Willie.
While the guard bids farewell to shoppers, Marcus crawls through the vent.
Once Willie and the last of the shoppers have gone, the security guard checks his watch and taps a code into the alarm system.
Marcus is in the air conditioning duct overlooking the security booth.
He presses a button on a remote control and switches off all the security cameras.
He then hurries back along the duct.
 He plunges down the duct heading straight down and smashes through a vent, which is above the table of sweaters Lois had repositioned to break his fall.
The table collapses, and he leaps to his feet.
He runs to the alarm console and turns it off with two seconds to spare.
A service elevator opens, and Marcus and Willie step out, Willie towing a trolley of safe cracking equipment.
They break into an office, and Marcus walks over to a large safe.Wille stares at it gast.
Still staring at the safe, Willie sits down.
Later he tries to crack the combination.
Meanwhile, Marcus wheels a handcart through the mall.
At home, Thurmond carefully lays the table for dinner and selects a bottle of wine.
Marcus is on his annual shopping spree, helping himself to all the various goodies Lois had listed.
Having failed with the combination, Willie has fallen back on drilling to crack the safe.
He grimaces and withdraws the bit from the door.
Next up, he dons dark goggles and tries to cut his way in with an arc welder.
At home, Sue takes a sauce bottle from the fridge and hands it to Thurmond.
The welding doesn't go well.
Marcus takes a red camisole off a shop dummy and then kisses its left breast.
Next, he comes to the dummy modeling the mink stole.
Unfortunately the dummy is too tall for him to reach it.
After jumping up and down a bit, he catches his breath and spots another mannequin holding a golf club.
He takes the club and tries to remove the stole from around the dummy's neck with it, but it won't budge.
Eventually he gives up, and using the club like an ax, starts to chop the dummy's legs off.
Down in the office, Willie has resorted to brute force and uses a sledge hammer on the safe door.
Wille doesnt crack the safe but Marcus suceeds in felling the dummy.
He takes the stole from around its neck.
Willie listens to the back of the safe and taps it.
Marcus comes into the office as Willie emerges from around the back of the safe.
He looks at the open safe door and smiles.
Marcus smiles and nods.
Willie heads out of the office, and Marcus begins filling a sack with wads of dollar bills from the safe.
Willie walks up to a display of elephant soft toys.
Some are purple, and some are pink.
Willie picks up a purple one and examines it.
He puts the purple elephant back and picks up a pink one.
He stares at the toy for a moment, and them smiling softly to himself, he turns to go.
The sound of a revolver being cocked brings him to abrupt hold.
Marcus is holding a gun on him.
Lois is behind Marcus with the handcart.
Willie shakes his head slowly.
Marcus' face softens, then he raises the gun.
Willie closes his eyes.
The police appears.
Marcus hides behind the hand cart and takes pot shots at the cops who return fire.
Willie runs holding the pink elephant which gets its head blowed off.
He hides around a corner and catches his breath.
A cop spots him and takes a shot, which blows the trunk of the wall
beside Willie, who runs on.
The statues in the nativity stable scene are smashed, which gets in the way.
Later, he jumps out of the store's backdoor, and, still clutching the toy elephant, leaps into the BMW.
He starts it up and speeds off.
A police reaches out his way and the BMW smashes the door off a squad car as Willie makes his escape.
The cop shattered the BMW's back window.Willie drives on, and the cops speed after him.
He glances back at the pursuing cruisers.
The BMW rounds the corner onto Thurmond's street, raising smoke from its tires in the process.
It races on down the street with the cruisers in hot pursuit.
Willie pulls up outside Thurmond's house.
Unable to get the car door open, he scrambles out of the driver's window clutching the pink elephant.
Some children at a neighboring house come out to see what the commotion is all about.
They watch as the cops cut Santa down in a hail of hot blood.
He takes several bullets.
Still clutching the elephant, Willie crawls towards Thurmond's front door.
The gun-toting cops close in on him.
Willie reaches the front step, but he's too badly injured to go any further.
He collapses and lies motionless.
The posse of cops surround him, keeping him covered as the screen fades slowly.
Daytime, a close-up of the blood-soaked pink elephant.
Thurmond opens a box on his bed.
Thurmond cleans his bicycle as a skaterat walks up.
Thurmond looks around.
Thurmond gets to his feet.
Thurmond looks down.
Thurmond kicks the skaterat hard in the balls.
He jumps on his bike and rides off, displaying the tee shirt Willie sent him.
As the partying shot he gives the shaterat a finger and then peddles off the street.
Rows of old film studio buildings reflected in a shiny, gold surface.
A shaky animation of a figure wearing a long coat and a hat.
The figure runs towards light.
Its arms spread out and become wings.
It takes flight.
As a bird, it comes to rest.
Al-Saleem, a bearded man wearing a loose-fitting robe and a pale cream cap.
In a house, three young Middle Eastern men listen to Al-Saleem on a television.
On a cordoned-off street, a policeman pats the roof of a milk float.
The milk float drives off.
Armed special branch officers dressed in black run across wasteland.
More officers huddle on a street corner as the milk float drives around.
Officers make their way upstairs at the back of a boarded up house.
Officers train their automatic weapons on the front of the terraced house.
The Sikh milkman stops and picks up some pints of milk.
The marksman on the roof takes aim.
Daylight floods through windows into the gloomy house.
The milkman walks up to the front door and puts two pints of milk on the doorstep.
One of the armed officers opens the back door and enters.
The three men are alerted.
Bomb making equipment is spread out on a table.
One of the officers who's just entered points at the ceiling.
One of the men presses a key on a mobile phone.
A golden fireball rips through the building.
Police and civilians dive for cover as debris rains down.
Thick, gray smoke fills the air.
Plumes of smoke rise into the air.
Letters emerge from brief flashes of grainy surveillance footage.
Densely packed buildings bisected by streets.
A casually dressed young man dressed with a beard lies on a bed.
Deep in troubled thought, his brow is pinched.
The man, Ferris, recalls sitting in a room, watching as a prisoner is gagged and beaten to death with a cricket bat.
In a large house, a craggy faced guy in his 40s, Edward Hoffman, dictates into a laptop.
On TV.
Ferris cocks a pistol.
A meeting room.
A car is blown up.
A soldier is shot.
Hoffman talks to officials.
Ferris, wearing jeans, shirt, casual top, and a baseball cap, sits at an Iraqi street cafe, sipping coffee.
A four-by-four pulls up.
The driver, Bassam, has long black hair and a ponytail.
He yells to Ferris.
Ferris picks up his bag and his coffee and gets in the four- by-four.
Ferris sips his coffee as Bassam drives.
A checkpoint.
On a dirt road.
They're watched.
Ferris looks at a stone house through binoculars.
Goats swarm around in front.
Bassam calls on his mobile.
They're watched on a screen in a CIA surveillance room.
Bassam gets out.
Bassam gives Ferris the finger and walks down the track.
Ferris gets out.
In the surveillance room, Ferris stands by a wall.
Bassam walks along the track with Nizar.
Ferris takes out his cell phone and looks at it.
He sees something glinting in the sky.
The Predator drone, an unmanned surveillance aircraft, is flown to a higher altitude.
Nizar gets in the front of the vehicle.
Sitting in the back, Ferris eats the orange.
Nizar looks down anxiously.
Nizar looks away.
Nizar opens his mouth and looks ahead thoughtfully.
Nizar unzips his coat, takes out a computer disk and offers it to Ferris.
Ferris watches the disk on his laptop.
Al-Saleem appears on screen.
Ferris makes a call on his cell phone.
Hoffman is sitting on his yacht, moored by a jetty near his large house.
Hoffman's wife comes out of the house.
Ferris hangs up, puts on his shades and walks down the track to Bassam and Nizar.
Ferris aims his gun.
Hoffman sits staring at a surveillance screen.
On it, Ferris and Bassam, both using cell phones, watch Nizar ride along a busy street in a town, on a moped.
The guys shoot Nizar.
He falls.
The four men pick up the injured Nizar and carry him to the back of the van.
Ferris aims a pistol and shoots Nizar in the head.
Ferris runs.
The surveillance screen shows the scene from above.
Hoffman takes a call from Ferris, who walks with Bassam.
Bassam and Ferris drive along a dirt road and stop at the top of a hill.
Bassam reverses the vehicle a few feet.
Ferris creeps up behind some rocks.
He takes out his binoculars and looks down at a collection of stone houses.
A man stands by a fire on which a pile of CDs and cassettes is burning.
Ferris radios Bassam.
Bassam gets a rifle from the back of the four-by-four.
Wearing traditional robes, a jacket and skull cap, Ferris walks down the hill, towards the Iraqi by the fire.
Bassam gets down by some rocks and pulls out the rifle's stand.
The man at the fire sees Ferris and frowns.
Ferris speaks Arabic.
Ferris looks around.
Bassam looks through a telescopic sight at Mehdi, a bearded man, as he walks out.
Bassam shoots him.
Ferris kills the man by the fire.
A man pops up from behind a wall.
Bassam shoots him.
A young man runs out of the house, gun blazing.
Bassam drives down and makes a call.
Ferris throws a grenade into a courtyard and runs in shooting.
He exchanges fire with the young man.
Two choppers fly towards the scene.
The young man peers out from behind a wall.
Ferris shoots him.
Ferris runs to the house.
Ferris enters the house with his gun held out in front.
He turns a corner and sees a man holding a detonator with wires attached.
Ferris shoots him and runs out.
As the house blows up, Ferris is thrown off his feet.
The black choppers fly above a winding river, then a forest.
Bassam drags Ferris to the four-by-four.
Ferris burns his hand as he grabs CDs and cassettes from the fire.
Bassam drags him to the four-by-four, throws him in the back and drives off.
Explosions rip through the buildings.
Two four-by-fours drive towards Ferris and Bassam.
Ferris cocks a rifle.
Ferris shoots at the other vehicles as they approach.
They collide on a bend and ram into a rock.
Bassam drives off along a dirt road.
The two choppers fly over the desert.
Ferris keeps shooting at the Iraqis as they follow in the four-by-fours.
Bassam radios.
The choppers fly overhead.
An Iraqi in each of the pursuing four-by-fours loads a rocket-propelled grenade into a launcher.
Ferris leans out of the window and shoots at them.
The RPG grazes a chopper and the chopper destroys one of the four-by-fours.
The other four-by-four gains on Ferris and Bassam.
The chopper fires a rocket which destroys the second four- by-four and knocks Ferris and Bassam's four-by-four onto its roof.
It slides to a stop in the dirt, throwing Ferris about in the back.
One of the choppers lands.
A soldier runs to Ferris.
Ferris is hauled into the chopper.
A soldier knocks Ferris out with an injection and the chopper takes off.
Ferris lies by the open hatch.
His face splattered with blood.
Lying in a hospital, Ferris remembers being with Bassam and his family.
The Iraqi prisoner being beaten to death.
A doctor leans over Ferris, who wakes.
In a yard outside, soldiers are playing basketball.
Using tweezers, the doctor picks a sharp fragment from an open wound in Ferris' arm.
He puts it with many other fragments in a kidney bowl.
U.S. Military Base, Qatar, Persian Gulf.
Ferris sits outside.
Ferris takes a phone from the agent.
Ferris frowns and stares intensely.
Ferris hangs up and looks down.
There's a bandage around his left forearm.
He picks at a small bloody wound and digs out a splinter of bone.
He holds up the tiny pointed fragment on his fingertip for a moment.
Ferris opens a matchbox and drops the fragment into it.
Deep in thought, he rubs his hands together.
A grand boulevard with palm trees along strips of grass running between the lanes of traffic.
Ferris is in a dirty black BMW with a heavy-set guy wearing shades, Skip.
Skip pulls up on a busy street and gets out.
Ferris walks into an apartment, throws keys on a table and looks around.
U.S. Embassy, Amman.
Ferris and Skip in a silver Audi roll up to a checkpoint.
Skip shows his ID.
An older agent, Holiday, perches on a desk in a meeting room.
Skip walks out of the meeting room.
Images of people coming and going from the house are displayed on a screen.
Holiday stares at Ferris.
Bald, overweight Holiday picks up his coat and walks out.
Ferris watches him go, then picks up a file and a case.
Skip comes back in.
The black SUV drives through a checkpoint and up to the entrance of a grand building.
Ferris, who still has cuts on his forehead, gets out of the SUV holding a briefcase.
He walks up steps to an entrance hall where a tall bearded man is waiting.
The man, Marwan, Hani's bodyguard, leads Ferris through a meeting room.
Marwan slides back a glass door, and Ferris steps out into an ornate garden.
A suave, middle-aged man sits at a table reading a newspaper.
Ferris bows to him.
Ferris sits.
Marwan waits in the meeting room.
Hani nods and glances at the building.
He pours Ferris a cup of coffee.
They walk through the glass door and into the meeting room.
Marwan slides the glass door shut.
Ferris takes a thick file from his case.
His brow furrowed, Hani opens the file and looks through photographs of groups of men.
He studies Ferris, and they both nod.
In the surveillance room, Skip and Ferris drive along a narrow street that opens out onto a market square.
They stop and look across at a large, flat-roofed building.
Ferris and Skip stand at a coffee store.
Nearby, a man dressed in black sits reading.
A young guy sits beside the man they're watching.
The man briskly stands and runs off, pushing a guy over as he goes.
Hoffman watches on the large surveillance screen.
On the screen, the streets are viewed from above.
Ferris runs after the man and loses him in a crowd.
Skip approaches from another direction.
The man keeps running.
Ferris yells to Skip.
The man runs down a quiet alley.
Rounding a corner, the man pushes a cyclist over.
Ferris sprints after him.
The man climbs over a high wall.
Ferris follows.
As the man swipes at Ferris with a knife, two dogs attack.
Ferris slams the man against a wall and yanks his arm up behind his back.
A dog sinks its teeth into Ferris' ankle.
He grabs the knife, stabs the man repeatedly and stabs the dog biting him.
Ferris clambers up on the wall, and the dogs bite his ankles.
Ferris pulls himself free and clambers over the wall.
He makes a call as he limps across wasteland.
Skip parks the BMW on a busy street, and he and Ferris get out.
They walk into a health clinic.
In a treatment room, Ferris sits up on a bed.
A doctor attends to him.
The doctor leaves and the pretty young nurse, Aisha, walks in.
She gets a packet from a cabinet and goes to Ferris.
She looks at the deep, bloody bites on Ferris' leg.
She looks at his bloody hands and cut arm.
He smiles, and she prepares a syringe.
She walks around to him, smiling.
Ferris studies her as she holds up the syringe and flicks it.
He winces as she injects him in the stomach.
He calls Hoffman.
Hoffman gets in his car next to his daughter.
Two men in suits open gates and the Mercedes drives into a courtyard.
It stops behind another car which Hani is leaning against, smoking.
Ferris gets out of the Mercedes looking a little apprehensive.
He walks up to Hani.
He throws his cigarette away.
Hani leads Ferris along a corridor.
Hani goes to a door with a window in it and knocks on the glass.
On the other side, a man lowers a flap and Ferris looks into the room.
Hoffman's agent, Zayed Ibishi, is naked and tied down on a table.
A man whips him.
Ferris turns away.
Ferris watches the flogging, his eyes narrowed.
A young man wearing a black kufi wheels a bicycle with heavily laden panniers out onto a street.
He stops by some bins, lifts the lid of one of them and takes out two paper cups.
He takes a piece of paper from one of the cups.
The young man wheels his bicycle away.
Noordermarkt.
A bustling, covered marketplace.
People are crowded in the street and around flower stalls.
A young man with his black hair swept back locks a car, then notices a tourist lining up a photograph.
Head down, the man briskly walks past the tourist, pressing the keys of a mobile phone.
The car explodes, sending shock waves through the marketplace.
Black and white frame-by-frame images of the explosion, which is blanked out by static.
Smoke hangs over the marketplace.
Ferris, in his apartment, and Hani, at home with his wife, watch the news.
Al-Saleem watches the report.
Ferris meets Marwan.
Ferris looks at Hani, who's sitting in his car.
Ferris sits in the back next to Hani and Marwan shuts the door.
They drive across the desert in a convoy of black cars.
The photos Ferris showed Hani.
On a vast expanse of brown earth, a suited man stands beside a kneeling figure, whose head is covered with a black hood.
The cars drive around the pair and stop.
A cloud of dust hangs in the air.
Marwan, Hani and the rest of the men get out of their cars.
Hani gestures and Marwan opens the door for Ferris to get out.
Ferris watches Hani walk up to the kneeling figure.
Hani takes off the hood.
He dials a cell phone.
Karami takes the phone and Hani goes to Ferris.
Karami hangs up and Hani takes the phone.
Karami stares up at Hani.
Karami stands and Hani kisses his cheeks.
One of the men gives Karami a bicycle and he leaves.
Hani strolls over to Ferris.
Ferris nods thoughtfully.
Later, walking back to his apartment, he's on the phone.
Ferris sees someone in his apartment.
Two SUVs drive through gates and stop in front of the Jordanian General Intelligence Directorate.
Ferris and Hoffman get out of the vehicles.
They head along corridors to join Hani in the meeting room.
Hoffman smiles tightly and sits.
Hoffman puts a photograph on the table.
He stares at Hani.
Hani glances at Ferris.
In the SUV.
Hoffman smokes a fat cigar and has a drink with Ferris on the balcony of his apartment.
Kids play football in the patch of ground in front of the safe house.
Skip stands amidst the market.
Karami, dressed in dark trousers and a pale cream shirt, waistcoat and skullcap emerges from a doorway.
He walks through the market.
Seeing him, Skip talks into an earpiece.
Wearing shades, Karami walks purposefully through the marketplace.
Skip follows him.
Karami takes off his shades and reads a newspaper as he walks down a narrow street.
Skip keeps on his tail.
Further down the street, a van is reversing.
Karami slows up and glances down at his paper.
He looks round at Skip, who throws out his hands.
Karami darts between the van and a building and runs down side streets.
The van blocks Skip's way.
Two men jump out and Skip bangs on the door.
The van moves forward.
Skip squeezes through the gap and runs down the street.
Karami is gone.
Ferris sits on the bed in a treatment room at the health clinic.
Aisha the nurse walks in.
She jabs a needle in his stomach.
She walks out.
He follows her.
Densely packed concrete buildings with ramshackle, flat roofs.
Hordes of people swarm on the street, where traders sell produce from barrows.
Ferris walks along the street with Aisha, who wears a headscarf.
They are photographed.
At a clinic, Ferris sits in a waiting room with a group of women and children.
Some of the women look at him curiously and smile.
Emerging from her room, Aisha smiles at Ferris.
They sit outside a cafe.
Men watch them.
They smile.
A waiter brings tea.
The old man eyes them stonily.
Aisha looks at Ferris anxiously, then looks down.
He leans to her and she smiles slightly.
They walk off.
Marwan, dark-suited and imposing, approaches.
Ferris pulls away from Marwan.
Aisha watches, concerned, as Marwan bundles Ferris into an SUV.
They're driven away.
Another SUV follows.
Aisha walks off.
Ferris' brow is pinched as he is driven past the market square.
A crowd watches as the safe house burns.
Golden flames burst from the windows and rise from the roof.
The SUV heads down a dark street, turns a corner and stops near the burning safe house.
A fire crew hoses flames.
Marwan and Ferris get out of the SUV.
Ferris steps closer to the blaze with his hand held against his forehead.
He squats down for a moment, then straightens up and turns to Marwan, who cocks his head back towards the SUV.
The SUVs drive to waste-ground and park by a number of other vehicles with their headlights on.
Men in dark suits stand around.
Marwan shoves Ferris down a rubbish-strewn slope towards Hani.
One of Hani's agents, holding a gun, stands beside a figure who kneels with his head covered in a black hood and his wrists bound behind his back.
Ferris and Hani face each other.
Ferris nods.
Ferris watches Hani and his men.
Ferris looks at Skip with disdain, steps over and leans down to him.
Ferris punches and kicks Skip, and he tumbles down the slope.
Ferris spits at him and walks off.
Ferris heads off up the slope.
Skip's hands are still tied behind his back.
The white dome of the Capitol building rises up amongst the ordered grid of streets.
Ferris sits alone at a cafe by a lake.
He drinks from a take-away coffee cup.
Hoffman walks over.
Ferris kicks his chair over.
Hoffman peers over his glasses at Ferris.
A black SUV drives along a track through a forest.
It stops outside a house with two communications towers nearby.
Ferris gets out of the SUV.
A casually dressed, bespectacled man with light-brown hair walks up, smoking a cigarette.
Ferris shakes hands with him.
They smile and Garland leads Ferris into the house.
Munching a strawberry, he leads Ferris through the large, cluttered living room.
Several computers are laid out on a table, and a parrot sits on a perch.
He points at a screen.
He looks at photographs.
Garland wrinkles his brow at Ferris.
A city of skyscrapers.
Cranes stand beside buildings under construction, which, without their glass cladding, resemble towering honeycombs.
In a hotel room, Ferris rubs a towel over his wet hair then brushes on a foamy white solution.
He looks at himself in a mirror.
Ferris's hair has light-brown highlights.
In an office on a construction site, he speaks to a bald agent posing as a construction worker.
Sadiki walks in.
As Sadiki and Al-Masri shake hands, Tony takes photographs from a car.
Ferris takes the room key from the clerk.
He heads upstairs and along a corridor.
Ferris lets himself into a hotel room.
He walks through the room and out onto the balcony.
He climbs over the wall, steps along a ledge and climbs onto the balcony of the next room.
He peers in through the French windows, pushing a long curtain aside.
Ferris heads to a laptop on the dressing table.
He pushes a device into the socket at the back of the computer.
He opens it up.
He switches it on and presses some keys.
A photo of Sadiki with his family appears on the screen.
Ferris dials his cell phone.
Garland's at a computer.
A number of files appear on the laptop in front of Ferris.
In the hotel lobby, Sadiki walks up to the desk and gets his room key.
Sadiki walks upstairs to his room.
Hearing the door, Ferris quickly shuts the laptop and turns off the desk light.
He runs out of the French windows and climbs across to the next balcony.
Sadiki walks into the room and gets some money from a bag.
He pockets the money.
He adjusts the chair in front of the dressing table.
He notices the French windows are open and goes to have a look.
He pulls back the curtain and slides the window shut.
Hoffman is at a kids' soccer match.
His daughter prepares to throw in.
He takes a photo.
On his hands-free mobile.
A jet touches down on a runway.
Queen Alia International Airport, Amman.
Marwan meets Ferris on a corridor.
Marwan takes Ferris to an office, where Hani sits reading a newspaper.
Ferris sits.
Hani puts aside his paper.
Ferris meets Skip.
Ferris gets in the back of an SUV.
At the health clinic, Aisha takes Ferris's blood pressure.
She removes the cuff.
They smile.
Ferris goes up to the counter of a cafe and chooses a pastry.
The man behind the counter puts pastries in a box.
Ferris drives an SUV through town and parks by an apartment block.
Carrying the box of pastries, he walks upstairs to an apartment.
He wears brown trousers and a white shirt.
Aisha opens the door, smiling.
Ferris shuts the door and follows Aisha.
Yousef and Rowley watch football on TV.
Ferris sits by the boys.
Cala puts bowls on the table.
Ferris leans closer to the boys.
They nod.
Ferris smiles at Aisha, who's by the table.
They all sit at the table.
Cala serves food.
Ferris looks at the boys.
Rowley shakes his head gravely.
Ferris looks to the boys.
Yousef nods in approval of the next dish.
Aisha notices.
Cala looks at the boys and points.
Aisha looks at Cala, worried.
She waves a white napkin.
He smiles and raises his eyebrows at Aisha.
They walk out to the street.
He holds out his hand.
Aisha smiles and looks up to a window.
Cala is looking down at them.
Ferris waves to her.
Without shaking hands, Ferris goes.
Aisha wrings her hands as she looks up at people leaning out of windows, watching her.
Hani gives Ferris photographs of Al-Masri and Sadiki with young women in a club.
Hani lights a cigar.
Ferris frowns earnestly.
Hani looks at a grandfather clock.
Ferris's eyes dart.
He smiles and holds up the file of photographs.
Garland works on a computer.
Garland stretches his arms above his head.
At the military airbase, a chopper lands in front of a hangar.
Pale light glows in the windows of the hangar and casts a sheen across the tarmac.
A troop carrier drives up.
Soldiers lift bodies in body bags from the chopper and load them onto the troop carrier.
Ferris walks along past an airport terminal building, talking on his phone.
Skip's by an SUV.
In arrivals.
A soldier detonates a bomb.
Al-Saleem watches a news report with one of his men.
Ferris, Hani and Garland are also watching.
Garland sends the message in Arabic.
Ferris pulls out his earpiece.
Al-Saleem sits on a balcony.
His lieutenant walks over with a laptop.
He sits and opens the laptop, which displays a picture of Sadiki.
Al-Saleem looks at the picture.
Al-Saleem studies the photo and narrows his eyes.
In his office, Sadiki shows a model to three men.
A colleague calls over.
Sadiki goes to a computer and opens his mail.
Emails flood across the screen.
He frowns as he starts to read the messages.
Below the message is a photograph of someone wearing a balaclava.
The next has a picture of someone holding up the Koran.
Sadiki looks at a TV which plays news footage of the bombing.
Increasingly alarmed, he takes off his glasses.
Carrying a case and laptop, Sadiki rushes out of the building.
He walks out onto the street.
He stops and looks round anxiously.
Then he walks over to his Mercedes, deactivating the alarm as he goes.
He walks round to the driver's door.
He unlocks it.
He opens it and gets in.
He frantically turns the key in the ignition.
He switches on the headlights.
A group of men wander past, watching.
He drives away in his cream Mercedes.
Sitting with a cigarette burning in an ashtray beside him, Al-Saleem slots a SIM card into a mobile phone and replaces the battery.
He has a drag on the cigarette.
He dials a number on the phone.
He has another drag on the cigarette.
He slowly raises the phone to his ear.
A surveillance view of the city.
In a park, Hoffman calls Ferris, who's walking through an airport terminal.
On a residential street, Ferris and Skip get out of an SUV.
They communicate through earpieces.
Sadiki emerges from an apartment building.
Ferris walks up and follows him to his car.
They are watched by men in a white four-by-four.
The four-by-four drives at them.
Sadiki gets in his car.
Ferris smashes a window.
Sadiki drives away.
Ferris and the attackers exchange fire.
An agent drives the SUV after the four-by-four but crashes.
Skip is thrown through the windscreen.
Ferris keeps shooting.
The attackers drive off after Sadiki.
Skip lies on the ground covered in blood.
Ferris feels for a pulse in his neck.
He makes a call on his mobile.
Sadiki sits on a chair in a shabby room.
A man sits filming him.
Al-Saleem's lieutenant pours a drink.
He hands the drink to Sadiki.
The lieutenant looks at Sadiki curiously.
In another room, Al-Saleem watches the video footage of Sadiki on a small screen.
Outside the city, a group of boys stand on a hillside.
Further down the hill, some dogs mooch about.
Sadiki lies dead amongst piles of rubbish.
Skip lies unconscious in a hospital bed with a breathing tube in his throat.
Ferris stands by the bed, staring at Skip.
Ferris swigs from a bottle of soda.
Ferris picks up a phone and sits by a window.
Sitting on a terrace by a lake, Hoffman pulls out his earpiece and sighs.
Ferris walks into his apartment and steps on an envelope.
He picks it up and shuts the door.
He walks into the living room.
He puts his keys on the table and opens the envelope.
He takes out a photograph of him and Aisha walking down a street.
He stares at the photo.
He looks around anxiously.
Then, he picks up a bowl and hurls it at the wall.
He storms out of the apartment.
Aggressively driving through town, he calls Aisha on his mobile.
A mobile on a table in Aisha's apartment rings.
Ferris speeds along a street and stops.
Ferris gets out and runs across the street.
He holds out his hand and the car stops.
Ferris slaps the bonnet and runs to Aisha's apartment building.
He heads up the stairs with his phone pressed to his ear.
Ferris slows up as he approaches a gate.
He walks into Aisha's apartment and looks around, his face aglow with sweat.
He goes into the living room.
The TV is on.
He tests the temperature of a pot of tea.
Holding his gun, Ferris walks along the hall and goes into the kitchen.
He sees a streak of blood on the side of a worktop and touches it.
Ferris rubs the dark, sticky substance between his fingers.
He walks out onto the balcony and makes a phone call.
Marwan sits alone in a restaurant.
Ferris walks up and two bodyguards stop him.
Marwan goes to Hani.
Hani leaves his attractive female companion and walks off with Ferris.
They stand facing each other.
Edgy, Ferris steps right up to Hani.
Hani walks off.
Marwan stops Ferris' firing.
At an airport, a hangar door opens
Holding Aisha's phone, Ferris runs over to a small jet.
Hoffman gets off with a bag slung on his shoulder.
A message appears on the phone.
There's a long phone number.
Ferris makes the call.
Ferris is dropped off in a village.
A van rolls up.
The driver gets out and opens the back.
Ferris climbs in beneath the back seats and lies in the storage area.
The driver, with thick stubble and cap, puts on a tape as he drives off.
A bright golden sun shines across the desert.
The van follows a line of cars and slows up.
A soldier stands with an Alsatian.
Another sits in the turret of a tank.
A soldier waves the van over.
The driver glances behind him.
The soldier checks the driver's papers.
Dar'a, Syria.
The van drives through the dessert, passing nomads with two camels.
A golden sun hangs above mountains in the distance.
The van travels across the barren and scorched land leaving a trail of dust.
Viewed from the surveillance camera, the van is a dot on an expanse of light brown earth.
The van stops.
The driver opens the back.
Sunlight floods in.
Ferris hauls himself out.
The driver beckons to him.
The driver gets in the van and leaves.
Ferris paces.
Flat, golden, dusty earth dotted with small bushes stretches for miles.
Clutching Aisha's phone, Ferris squats down and looks up into the clear blue sky.
He runs his hand across his sweaty face.
Hoffman is in the surveillance room, viewing Ferris from above.
Ferris wanders across the dirt.
Four SUVs appear and drive towards him.
He stares at them.
Ferris looks at the sky and puts his hands up.
The team watch the surveillance screen.
The SUVs drive in a circle around Ferris churning up a dust cloud, obscuring them.
Men get out of the SUVs and go up to Ferris.
On the screen, the vehicles and men are obscured by a large cloud of dust.
A robe is thrown at Ferris's feet.
A black hood is put over his head.
Barefoot, Ferris is manhandled into one of the vehicles.
The four SUVs drive off in different directions.
On screen, they emerge from the cloud of dust.
Hoffman watches the vehicles go their separate ways.
One of the SUVs speeds off down a road.
An SUV stops in front of a stone building.
Armed men open a large gate.
Ferris, still hooded, is dragged through the entrance.
A man shines a torch into a dark cell, where Ferris is sitting on the floor.
His ankles and wrists are bound with cable ties.
The man lifts Ferris's hood and holds a cup of water to his lips.
He tips the cup and Ferris drinks.
His ankles are bound to the chair legs by cable ties.
Men escort Al-Saleem along dark passageways by torchlight.
Ferris sits at a table with the black hood over his head.
His hands are secured to the table top with cable ties, palms down.
Armed men stand guard.
A harsh white light shines in the otherwise gloomy room.
On the wall behind Ferris is a black cloth with a gold disk and Arabic script on it.
Al-Saleem walks in past a group of men.
One sits by a video camera, which is focused on Ferris.
Al-Saleem sits.
The hood is pulled off Ferris's head.
He stares at Al-Saleem, who returns his gaze benignly.
He waves his finger.
He turns to the cameraman.
Turn on the camera.
Ferris sees Karami amongst the men observing.
He remembers Hani embracing Karami in the desert.
Al-Saleem stands and picks up a hammer from table of tools
Al-Saleem hits Ferris' little finger, which snaps and spurts blood.
He spits in Al-Saleem's face.
Al-Saleem wipes it with his hand.
He hammers another finger.
Al-Saleem drops the hammer and walks out.
The men gather around Ferris, who hangs his head.
As Al-Saleem walks away down the gloomy corridors, he wipes his hands on a cloth.
The executioner, a man wearing a black cloak and hat, yanks Ferris's head up by his hair.
He spits in Ferris' face.
He slams Ferris' face down on the table.
Al-Saleem and one of his men head downstairs and through a market.
His nose and mouth bloody, Ferris heaves and shifts within his ties.
Ferris' ties are cut.
The men pull him to the floor.
He kicks and struggles as they lift him.
The camera keeps filming as Ferris is lifted onto the table, face down.
Ferris is flipped onto his back.
He keeps struggling, but the men hold him spread-eagled on the table.
The executioner stands, watching.
Ferris remembers the man being beaten with a cricket bat.
As the executioner lunges at Ferris with a large knife, the room is lit up by gunfire.
The executioner and the rest of the men are shot to pieces as soldiers swarm in.
They're followed by Hani, who walks in and stares at Ferris.
Hani turns the camera off.
Ferris' eyes slowly close.
His head flops back as he's lifted off the table.
Al-Saleem gets in the back of an SUV.
A man gets in next to him.
Marwan sits behind the wheel, smoking.
Al-Saleem waves his hand and narrows his eyes.
Marwan turns round.
Ferris is sitting up in a hospital bed as a nurse checks a drip.
His hand is bandaged.
The wounds on his bruised face have tapes on them.
Hani walks in and stands at the end of the bed.
Hani straightens his jacket.
He claps sarcastically.
Agents and soldiers stand around on the street.
Hoffman sits with Ferris in a cafe.
Ferris leans close to Hoffman.
Hoffman looks down, thoughtfully, as Ferris stands and picks up his jacket.
Ferris stops at the door and turns his battered and bruised face to look at Hoffman, who stares at him and nods.
An agent standing by the bar pushes a button.
Doors slide open.
Ferris walks out.
Hoffman watches him go, then puts his earpiece in.
Ferris, much of the bruising on his face gone, walks along an arcade, past market traders.
He stops and stares.
Across the street is the clinic where Aisha works.
Aisha is standing by the window, consulting with a colleague.
His expression brightens as he watches her.
He gazes across the street at Aisha, leans against a wall and drifts into his thoughts.
He glances round, lowers his eyes, then returns to watching Aisha at work.
He suddenly looks grave.
He glances round, as if trying to make a decision.
In the market, Ferris uses tongs to put pastries into a box.
He looks round and sees a guy on a mobile phone watching him.
The guy turns away.
Ferris looks up at the sky.
Ferris turns to a vegetable stall.
He's filmed on the surveillance screen.
Hoffman radios the guy who's watching Ferris.
The surveillance camera pulls away until the market, then the city become a grainy pattern of dots and lines.
A fast-moving road under a lowering sky.
A flash of lightning hits a dead tree.
It sprouts leaves.
In a store, teenage girls try on funky shoes.
Nearby, a little girl tries on dull, brown shoes.
The long-haired nymphets giggle at the girl.
Her mom leads her down the street.
She looks awestruck as women try on clothes.
She watches a woman pay with a credit card.
The little girl grows up.
She enters one such luxury store.
She sprays on perfume.
She hugs a shop assistant.
Her colleague, Claire, simpers.
Rebecca stares at her credit card bill.
Rebecca holds up the apparently missing card.
In a washroom, her friend Suze reads from Rebecca's resume.
Rebecca, her long, red hair loose around her shoulders and wearing a stylish tartan cape, comes down a fashionable shopping street.
She stops in front of the window of Denny and George.
Her jaw drops and quivers with excitement at the sight of a green chiffon scarf draped around the neck of a faceless fashion mannequin.
She ventures inside and makes a slow but pointed beeline for the scarf.
The mannequin speaks to her.
Rebecca crosses to an assistant.
Rebecca tenses, then beams.
She produces a second card.
Rebecca beetles down the street towards a hot dog stand.
There's a long queue.
The man paying a hot dog pays for her hot dog with a $bill.
The hot dog buyer turns to face her.
With the green scarf flowing behind her, she dashes towards a tall, glass-topped building.
She rides an internal elevator and totters towards a reception desk with an apricot-colored briefcase.
A pair of studded, six-inch, killer heels approach.
The shoes are attached to a tall, blonde woman in a black dress with a fur collar, who gives Rebecca a quick once-over.
Rebecca's bag springs open.
Rebecca forces a smile.
Alicia smiles loftily at her and sashays away.
Rebecca turns back to the pixie-like receptionist.
She rips a visitors' card from his hand.
In a waiting room, she sits between two women and two men, all reading broadsheet papers.
The brunette next to her watches her disapprovingly.
She's in the office of the hot-dog Englishman.
Aghast, she pulls off the scarf and throws it under a desk.
As he sits down, he recognizes her.
She struggles with the lock on her case.
The editor pulls a face.
Rebecca looks like a rabbit caught in the headlights.
He rests his chin on his hand and looks at her with a benign expression.
She collides with a glass partition.
She wanders along the sun-bleached pavement beneath two huge fashion posters on her way back to the office.
An immediate termination notice.
Both girls stare at the phone.
Suze's boyfriend, Tarquin.
The girls slump.
Tarquin, holding a lamp, looks shell-shocked.
Suze jerks her head at the door.
Tarquin hands Suze the lamp.
She pushes a stack of bills across the kitchen table towards Rebecca, who pushes them back.
The girls knock back shots.
They run out into the street.
Rebecca falls off her bed.
They run to a post box.
A bag lady comes by with a packed supermarket trolley.
Next day, Rebecca's at a flea market with her mom, Jane, and dad, Graham.
Her dad does a magic trick.
A waistcoat.
Rebecca's phone.
She goes up in the lift of the Dantay-West building.
Just after a postie wheels in the post trolley through the glass door, she spots her pink envelope among the stacks of mail.
The lift opens up and a man wheels out a clothes rail.
She steps aside to let him pass, then ducks down behind it so that she can get through the door.
Rebecca's slipped an arm into a coat hanging on the rail, and she's trying to reach the letter.
She tries to hook the letter with a stiletto heel.
She swings at the post trolley with the shoe.
She hides in a blue fur.
Alette strides off.
The clothes rail is wheeled away, leaving Rebecca lying on the floor, clutching her letter.
Rebecca looks from Alicia to the clothes rail and some fashion stills along the wall.
She sits on a creaky chair.
She's sharpening her pencil.
The prim PA giggles.
Luke peers oddly at Rebecca.
She turns towards Haley, trying to follow his gaze.
Hayley beams inanely.
He leans forward.
She and Suze are in a bookshop.
She tries to copy from a book.
They watch a DVD at home.
Rebecca packs clothes into plastic bags and stuffs them into a cupboard.
She closes the cupboard that's full to bursting.
Mannequins try to lure her.
At the office.
Rebecca, wearing pink, bends the article, turns to her pink laptop, and types something in Google.
She leans forward to read what's popped up.
The corner of his mouth drops.
At a conference.
All eyes are on Rebecca, who gulps nervously.
Luke smiles like a Cheshire cat.
Mr. Xander looks cornered.
Luke grins, as he didn't mean her to say that.
Rebecca beams with newfound optimism.
As she strides down a street, a piece of paper floats down towards her and lands on her chest.
It's a flier for a sample sale.
In his penthouse, Luke's boss, Ryan, slams a virtual golf ball at a virtual golf course.
She's in the queue for the sample sale.
Women emerge from a door and stride past with their purchases.
Another door opens.
The women in the queue jerk their heads.
There's a stampede.
Handbags, shoes, and gloves, all for the taking.
She puts the tall pinkie boots down.
A woman grabs them.
The woman snatches them.
Rebecca jumps on her.
At home, her head shoveled, she sits contemplating the mountain of shopping bags in front of her, including the Gucci boots.
A message from Luke demanding the outline pops up on her laptop.
She looks at her watch, then slumps down at her desk in front of her laptop.
Idly, she pulls a coat from one of her bags.
Her face folds as she reads the label.
Rebecca looks at an empty photo frame on Luke's desk.
Luke regards here with a twinkle in his eye.
Hayley brings Rebecca a note.
Luke picks up the phone.
Hayley rushes back in.
Like a woman possessed, Rebecca clambers onto the slippery boardroom table on all fours, propelling herself at the phone.
Later in his office, with Hayley in attendance, Luke looks earnestly into Rebecca's face.
Luke glances dubiously at Hayley.
Rebecca smiles meekly.
At her desk, she opens a letter.
At her home, Rebecca's smiling dad magics a coin from behind her ear and puts it into her outstretched hand.
He plunks himself down on an easy chair that tips back.
Rebecca's expectant smile freezes.
A recreational vehicle comes crashing around the corner with Graham at the wheel.
Rebecca's face brightens.
At the office, Wilson is looking at an Asian Web page.
She wears a flirty fishing for something kind of expression.
Suze is trying on a frothy white tulle wedding dress.
Suze's mom tries on her veil.
Yawning with exhaustion, Luke steps into a lift to join Alette swaved in fur and leggy Alicia.
Alette sweeps out.
Alicia trips and falls into Luke's arms.
In Miami, Florida, home to sun-kissed beaches and a marina full of private boats, Luke and Rebecca are at a magazine conference.
Alicia goes off in a huff.
Smiling women crowd around Rebecca.
She grins across at Luke, whose eyebrows shoot up with amusement.
A waitress hands her a cocktail.
Rebecca notices the man's name tag.
A bony-faced, sandy head man.
She nose-nuzzles in Eskimo style.
Luke leaves her to it.
She peers blankly at Janne.
Luke glancing oversees him waiting for an answer.
She slaps Janne's face.
Alicia, pouring champagne, misses the glass as she watches in horror.
She answers her mobile.
She glances around furtively.
On a breezy terrace.
She takes a deep, deep breath.
She takes him to a men's store.
He slumps on a seat.
He shoots her a look.
She recoils.
She straightens his bow tie.
She helps him on with a black tuxedo.
She sits down and faces him.
He pulls her onto the dance floor, puts one arm around her waist, and clasps her right hand in his left hand.
He steps forward.
She grasps his shoulder and tosses back her long, straightened hair, then steps back as he steps forward.
Her high-heeled, sandaled feet fall in with his dance step.
Holding both her hands in his, he twirls her towards him, twisting her arms across her waist.
Keeping their heads still, they move around in a circle.
She unravels from his hold, whacking his cheek with her fan and slapping his face with her long, tossing hair.
Resuming their initial position, holding waist and shoulder, they whirl altogether.
She leans back seductively and flicks the fan.
Luke looks both startled and pleased as she flutters her eyelashes at him from behind the fan.
He spins her again.
Breaking from his hold, she dances an improvise solo, waving the fan in front of her chest, her waist, and even her bottom.
Like smiles awkwardly, vaguely claps his hands to accompany his unpredictable dancing partner.
Suddenly, she disappears only to reappear behind him, swaying wildly from side to side, all the while waving the fan in front of her.
He tries to reconnect.
She whacks him again, but then settles back in his arms.
Later, they walk back to their hotel.
Alicia, sipping champagne on a sofa in the lobby, uncrosses her endless legs.
She struts towards him.
She strokes and kisses his cheek.
Rebecca turns away, trying to mask her disappointment.
New York, she sits glumly in the back of a Yellow Cab as it crosses Times Square.
Her chin resting on one blue cashmere-gloved hand, she answers her mobile.
Rebecca dives to the floor of the cab.
She finds her black and white dress.
Suze is propelled across the room and buried under the avalanche of clothes.
Tall D. Freak smiles at his neighbor.
Rebecca, wearing her sample blue gloves, faces the group.
At home, Rebecca runs to the fridge and frantically searches through the freezer.
She brings out a huge block of ice in the middle of which is a credit card.
She smashes the block onto the counter and the floor, and bangs at it with a yellow stiletto heel and then a thicker wooden heel.
She holds the now smaller block onto the floor and wrestles with it.
Using two hair dryers, she melts it down, and eureka!
Armed with the card, she goes to store and spots a cute melon-shaped bag.
It's the group leader.
Rebecca waves at Lainley.
The group leader clutches a shoe to her forehead.
The night of the ball.
Luke, Alicia, and Rebecca ride up in the lift.
Rebecca is a beaded black and silver jacket.
Alicia glances down at her and smiles.
The lift doors open onto a sumptuous ballroom.
She has a loose thread on her jacket.
She tears the sleeve.
Alicia swans over to Alette.
Rebecca, her long hair crimped, runs to a side table and tries to stuff a canape into the tear.
Two women emerge from the powder room.
Rebecca dives for the door.
As she comes through to her, a woman is glugging back champagne.
Her jacket catches on the door, and beads tumble to the floor.
The woman loses her balance.
They fall into each other's arms.
The woman pulls on her other sleeve.
Rebecca, minus the jacket, helps the champagne-glugging woman to her seat.
Rebecca is in the kitchen.
Rebecca, whose dress looks like a waitress uniform, is shoved into the ballroom with a tray of food.
She tries to get back into the kitchen.
The stern manager hisses at her.
She's facing Alette's table.
She twirls around.
She bumps into a waiter.
Fish goes flying.
Luke leaps to his feet.
He takes Rebecca's trays.
Alicia's lips purse.
Alette giggles.
Later, up on the romantically lit rooftop, Luke takes off his tuxedo and places it around Rebecca's shoulders.
He gives her an enigmatic sideways glance.
Their lips come together.
Next morning, Rebecca comes into work in a red dress, with a fluffy orange shrug, swinging a matching orange bag.
She rides the escalator with a soft smile on her face.
A man in a gray coat rides a lower escalator.
She struts away coolly, then bursts into a run and dives into a lift.
A black briefcase blocks the closing doors.
Derek Smeath gets in.
As he positions himself on the other side of the lift, she steals a look at him.
Dark hair, pale complexion, glasses, and a gray raincoat.
The lift stops at Dantay-West Publications floor.
A number of people get out.
Smeath glances across at her.
More people get in.
She looks at his sturdy, black briefcase.
She brings out her mobile and scrolls down past Bergdorf, Bloomingdale's, and Chanel to Derek Smeath.
Slowly, she brings the phone to her ear, flashing a smile at a man who's just got into the lift.
Derek Smeath stands po-faced, not moving a muscle.
Rebecca cancels the call and shoves the phone back into her bag.
In horror, she scrabbles into the bag.
The lift arrives at Trout and Bass on the fifth floor.
She flees.
She looks back.
He looks up, and their eyes meet.
A slow, smug smile spreads across his face.
She dashes for the stairs.
She runs through the office door, just as Smeath steps out of the lift.
Rebecca freezes.
Smeath is being forcibly removed.
Rebecca watches Smeath disappear, and her frozen smile relaxes.
Alette's chauffeur driven car arrives at a store.
Alicia joins them.
The flouncy purple dress.
Alicia cringes.
Alette considers.
She hands Alicia Rebecca's bag.
Long-legged Alicia is left holding the bag.
She slams it down, and slumps next to it.
Her eyes narrowing, she opens the bag and picks up the mobile.
Rebecca, looking nervous, emerges from the changing cabin in the purple dress.
Alette nods.
Rebecca smiles at her reflection in the mirror, then looks at the label of the dress.
Alicia watches her with a smug smile.
In the bridal shop, Rebecca, in a pink maid of honor dress, is blind-folded.
The petticoat is blue and green.
Suze spots a Barney's carrier bag.
As Rebecca runs down the street with two store bags, a black car draws up.
A tall, silver-haired woman in a beret gets out.
Rebecca runs into the meeting.
The smart, silver-haired woman sits down, and looks round at the group.
She holds up Rebecca's shopping bag.
The group come to a thrift shop.
Ryuichi puts up his hand.
The basketball player picks her up and shakes her.
She runs back to the thrift shop.
But the surly girl in a wheelchair.
Graham switches on his TV.
Jane elbows Graham with excitement.
The studio audience turn to look at him.
Rebecca covers her face.
Smeath's jaw drops.
Tarquin chokes on his cereal.
Smeath waves the list of excuses at the studio audience.
Rebecca, sitting next to Luke, gives him a helpless look.
Her eyes brim with tears.
Seeing Luke's disappointed face, she shuts her eyes, and bows her head.
He strides out of the TV studio.
Miserably she wanders home in her purple dress and Yves Saint Laurent coat.
Suze bursts out of the front door to meet her.
The bag lady, with the shopping trolley, comes by in a pink dress with a green and blue petticoat.
Rebecca searches for an explanation.
Rebecca's face crumples.
Luke pauses, suddenly derailed by his own feelings.
Graham and Jane's mobile home pulls up outside Rebecca and Suze's building.
Mr. West eyes Luke.
Ryan smiles unpleasantly.
Luke looks blown away.
Rebecca, wandering along a wintry lake shore, is a tiny dot in the distance.
Jane and Graham are by their mobile home.
Jane brings out a book.
Graham joins Rebecca by the lake shore.
She shoots him a look.
Looking up into her dad's jowly face, looking at her with fierce deep love, Rebecca smiles.
He puts an arm around her, and she lays her head on his big barrel chest.
Tears roll down Jane's face as she watches her giant of a husband standing facing the lake, with his arm around Rebecca.
At home, Rebecca finds a note from Suze.
Glumly she steps into the room, and looks at all the clothes piled up on the bed.
She slumps down, and gazes miserably at a photograph or herself and black-haired Suze laughing together.
In his office, Luke picks up the empty photo frame from his desk, and looks at it with a sigh.
He adds it to the other personal things he's put in a cardboard box.
Alicia appears at his door.
Graham brings Alette a cup.
Jane can't do tiny.
All eyes are on her as she cuts a millimeter slice.
Alette's perfectly made up eyes blink.
Alette gives a Gallic shrug.
Luke is in a bank.
At the shopaholic meeting.
The door bursts open.
Group members put up their hands.
At Dantay-West, Allon, the receptionist, gets an email about a sale and auction by the girl in the green scarf.
At her desk, Haley looks at her inbox, and her eyes widen.
She's holding a piece of paper behind her back.
Luke leans over and snatches it from her.
It's the attachment Allon forwarded to all employees.
He keeps the ad, and looks at it with a sober expression.
Meanwhile, the shopaholics group are getting the auction items ready.
With crazed eyes, Haley jumps out of a cab, and dashes to join a queue of women standing outside the church building where the sale is taking place.
Graham is on door duty.
Allon is first in line.
Graham demonstrates a red ensemble.
D. Freak is on hats.
Miss Korch produces the green scarf.
Haley sends a text.
Rebecca suddenly seems hesitant.
She grabs back the scarf.
She walks towards the blonde purchaser, and places it in her outstretched hands.
She looks at her intriguingly.
Jane and Graham look on proudly.
The blonde, smiling coyly, waves the scarf at the applauding women.
Rebecca looks distraught.
Later, Graham counts the takings.
Derek Smeath strides into his office.
The staff watched him pass with po-faced curiosity.
He looks back at them through his old-fashioned, black- rimmed specs.
His pace slows.
An employee, seeing him draw near, ducks into an unseen office.
Smeath, scowling, wipes his mouth and turns to the door of his own office.
Rebecca's at his desk.
All the money is in jars of coins.
It's the day of the wedding.
A photographer on the decorated front steps of the church snaps the maids of honor arranging Suze's wedding train.
One of them wears blue, the other pale green.
The third is in red.
A figure in pink hurries up.
Suze turns around and looks coldly at Rebecca.
Rebecca, wearing a pink tulle veil, looks imploringly at Suze.
She turns towards the street, where the bag lady, standing with her trolley, twirls around in Rebecca's favorite pattern jacket.
Suze's eyes mist over.
With a relieved smile, Rebecca whips off her spotted shrug.
She is handed a bouquet and hurries after the other maids of honor.
Suze's father goes to take his daughter's arm.
Rebecca turns around and runs into Suze's open arms.
Grinning happily, Rebecca races down the aisle to join the other three, who are processing slowly towards the altar.
Her black hair pinned up in an elegant bun, Suze composes herself and looks towards the altar, at Tarquin's smiling face.
After the wedding, Rebecca and the rest of the guests wave as the newlyweds are driven off in a white Rolls Royce.
Rebecca, standing among the well-dressed crowd in her spotted shrug, smiles fondly.
As the people begin to disperse, her face starts to cloud over, as if suddenly thinking of something sad and serious along with the good things.
She turns away from the church and starts walking across a city street in her pink bridesmaid dress, with a heavy tulle petticoat and long, white gloves.
She walks past the window of Yves St. Laurent.
A black China mannequin knocks on the window.
Rebecca lifts the hem of her pink dress and considers.
A second mannequin knocks on the glass and shows her the orange bag she's carrying.
Rebecca compares it to her pink one.
The mannequin jiggles the bag seductively.
Rebecca's eyes fill with wonder.
She smiles eagerly.
But then, with a little shake of the head, she walks on.
The two doll-like mannequins look at each other.
The seated one with the bag stands up.
Both clap their hands.
The mannequins in all the fashion windows she passes applaud her.
Rebecca starts to laugh, swinging her skirt joyfully, then stops in her tracks.
Luke is standing in front of her in the middle of the pavement.
She looks at him like a kid who's been caught stealing sweets.
She shrugs inanely.
She steps towards him.
He steps towards her.
They're in front of Asprey's.
She shakes her head hopelessly as he looks intently into her face.
A faint smile flickers across his lips.
Reaching into his coat pocket, he brings out the green scarf.
He wraps the scarf around her neck.
Rebecca beams at him.
He kisses her on the lips.
As they kiss, a pair of ankle boots is placed in a window display.
Rebecca spots them in the corner of her eye.
A tall, white-faced mannequin tilts her head and winks at her.
Rebecca grins and goes back to giving Luke's kiss her full attention.
The screen fades to black, leaving just the green scarf.
She introduces Alicia to Janne.
Janne kisses Alicia's hand.
She dances with Luke.
Luke spots Graham throwing himself about to the music.
Graham lies on his back.
Jane turns his legs like a wheel.
Rows of old film studio buildings reflected in a shiny gold surface.
The feet of a woman wearing high heels and a man in Brogues under a table in a restaurant.
Under other tables in restaurants, another couple's feet.
A woman slides her foot tentatively forward.
A woman gently rubs her foot against a man's.
More couples nuzzling feet under various tables.
Feet slide towards each other, as if drawn together magically.
A man wearing running shoes and a woman wearing high heels sit, their feet far apart from each other.
The middle-aged couple at the table study menus.
He scratches his eye.
The guy, Cal, glanced at the woman, Emily, who's studying the menu intently.
Cal gawks at her, wide-eyed.
Emily opens her mouth to speak, but falters.
A girl in her late teens chases a girl of about through a house.
The girl, Molly, dives onto a sofa.
The older girl tickles her.
Molly knocks a photo frame down.
Molly scampers off.
The glass has cracked.
The babysitter, Jessica, picks up the framed photo from the floor.
Jessica examines the photo carefully.
It's of Emily with her arms wrapped around Cal's shoulders.
They both smile happily.
A wistful smile flickers across Jessica's face.
She gently places her hand over Emily, so that she can just see Cal.
Emily and Cal drive back through the night in silence.
Driving, Emily glances over at Cal awkwardly.
She opens and closes her mouth several times before she finally speaks.
She licks her lips anxiously.
She looks over at him.
He continues to stare ahead.
Emily shakes her head.
At the house.
Jessica flaps her hands in disgust.
In his bed, Robbie puts a pillow over his face.
In the car, Cal stares ahead with a hard expression.
Emily glances over at him several times.
She purses her lips.
Cal opens the door.
Cal listlessly tumbled from the moving car.
Emily screeches to a halt,
and gets out.
She races back to where Cal lies on the road.
He sits, hunched, in the road.
She stares at him incredulously.
She goes to help him up.
But he gets to his feet by himself,
and trudges towards the car.
At the house, Jessica tidies up the coffee table in the living room.
Robbie, who's around 13, plods in and leans in an archway, hands in pockets.
Robbie nods ruefully,
then looks upwards and sighs.
Jessica cringes.
She considers.
Two young women in a bar.
The other one, Liz, eyes her with concern.
The one who's getting a talking to, Hannah, sags her shoulders and pouts.
He wears smart, polished brown leather shoes and a maroon suit.
A guy strides confidently through the bar.
Hannah beams at him.
Hannah is already halfway towards the door and putting her coat on.
The handsome guy, Jacob, stares after her with a smile.
Cal drives along a dark street with Jessica in the passenger seat.
Jessica gazes down uncomfortably.
She glances up at Cal, who's focused on the road.
She hangs her head and gazes down again.
With trepidation, she glances at him again.
She looks away again.
He shakes his head.
She nods.
He smiles.
Cal claps a hand over his mouth.
He puts a hand to his head.
He pulls up outside a house.
Jessica frowns.
She nods.
Tall, slightly gangly Jessica stands outside a house and watches as Cal drives off.
Her brow is pinched forlornly.
People are leaving the upmarket bar Hannah and Liz were in.
Cal sits at the bar.
Resting his head on his hand,
he stares down glumly.
Cal drums his fingers on the countertop.
Cal smiles gently.
He turns to look at a woman on his left,
and leans towards her.
She turns to him.
He shakes his head.
She's talking to her friend.
Cal taps his glass on the bar.
Cal laughs at his own joke.
He looks over at Jacob, who's making a bunch of women laugh.
He sucks his drink through a straw.
A balding man makes his way through an open-plan office.
He knocks on a glass door.
His colleague fakes surprise.
Cal heads out.
His colleague pats him.
Cal closes his eyes as everyone in the office gives him a round of applause.
It's raining.
Two chairs and a table in a pretty garden with white and red rose bushes.
There's also a wooden bench and a climbing frame.
Cal stands by a rental truck and stares ahead, solemn-faced.
Emily pinches the bridge of her nose.
Tears well in her eyes.
Emily nods.
He looks her in the eye.
She reels slightly.
Their gaze lingers.
Then Cal gets in the driver's seat of a rental truck,
and closes the door.
Emily watches as Cal reverses.
She walks along by the truck, her arms folded,
then looks down.
Cal's back at the same bar.
It's busy with people chatting.
He sits alone at the counter, drinking a vodka cranberry through a straw.
He spots Jacob opposite him, eating a burger and chips alone at the bar.
Jacob wipes his mouth with a napkin,
then gets up.
He puts on his suit jacket and glances over at Cal,
who quickly lowers his gaze and sips his drink.
Jacob makes his way over to a table of young women and starts chatting to them.
Cal shakes his head disapprovingly and lets out a sigh.
Middle-aged man in a shirt and tank top comes in.
Cal waves.
His friend knocks back the wine.
The guy, Bernie, eyes him anxiously, then looks down.
He puts a Macy's bag on the bar.
Cal frowns, bewildered.
Bernie gets up.
Cal shrugs and smiles.
Bernie heads out of the bar.
Jacob is at the table with one woman.
Cal is woeful.
Jacob is listening.
Cal glances over at Jacob,
who beckons him.
Cal looks over his shoulder for someone else,
but Jacob beckons him again.
Cal regards Jacob thoughtfully.
He picks up his drink and cologne,
and heads over to Jacob's table, just as the woman gets up to leave.
Cal nods.
Cal sits back down.
Cal lowers his glass.
Cal stares.
Jacob takes a swig of his drink.
He nods at Cal.
Cal studies him.
Jacob cocks his head.
Cal nods.
Jacob raises his glass and drinks.
Cal follows suit without using his straw.
Jacob beckons to the woman.
Cal looks around.
He points at Cal, then gets up.
He heads off with the pretty dark-haired woman, who smiles at Cal.
Cal turns to watch them leave, then relaxes into his chair.
He sucks on his straw.
Molly rushes in front of the TV and starts dancing.
Cal and Robbie lean against the kitchen counter.
Robbie lets his head flop onto his hands.
Jessica smiles at Robbie, who fidgets awkwardly and looks down.
In the mall, Cal ascends on an escalator.
He strolls through the mall.
Hannah and Liz are at a bar with a group.
They all raise their glasses.
The guy, who is dark-haired and a bit gawky looking, kisses Hannah on the lips.
Hannah smiles excitedly.
Hannah looks over at him and smiles.
Liz heads off.
Hannah regards her boyfriend, who is playing with his phone and sitting next to another guy doing the same thing.
Hannah's smile fades and her eyes dart.
Jacob stands by a glass barrier on the roof terrace of the mall.
He bites into a piece of folded up pizza.
He's dressed smartly in a dark suit, brown shoes, and sunglasses.
He leans on the barrier and peers over.
He looks up and chews slowly as Cal approaches.
Cal wears a baggy striped polo shirt, blue jeans and running trainers.
Jacob checks his watch and shrugs.
Jacob threw Cal's trainers over the barrier,
slapped him on the cheek and marched off.
Cal smiles with disbelief, then suddenly relents and takes out his wallet.
Jacob looks down at the wallet dryly, then frowns incredulously at Cal.
Cal tries on various shirts and ties.
Cal and Jacob by racks of sunglasses.
Cal has loads of shopping bags.
His credit card is swiped.
In a beauty product store, Cal's credit card is swiped again.
Cal studies himself in a mirror.
He picks a shirt.
They look through jackets.
Cal is measured for a suit.
He opens his wallet.
Cal tries on a store trilby.
In a jeans store.
Jacob looks skywards.
Jacob marched off.
Cal hurries after him.
Jacob turns back.
Jacob shrugs, then slaps Cal's cheeks.
In a hairdresser's.
It's Cal's hairdresser.
He steps out in his new garb.
Jacob steps confidently over to Cal.
Later, they sit in the bar together.
Cal shrugs.
Jacob raises his eyebrows.
Cal is wearing a sharp blue suit.
Jacob and Cal approach a group of women on a couch.
Amy looks down awkwardly, then turns away.
He points at Cal.
She nods.
Cal watches Jacob leave with all the different women, including two at the same time.
A beautiful dark-haired woman with olive skin heads towards Cal.
He can't take his eyes off her.
She wears a low-cut black dress and makes a beeline for him.
She shakes her silky hair from her face.
Cal smiles.
She reaches the table and presents Cal with the bill.
They've racked up a bill of $Cal's smile disappears.
She presses the button.
The page comes out completely black.
She screws her eyes shut.
A guy spots her and stops.
He comes into the room.
In a classroom, a teacher writes on the blackboard.
In the classroom, Robbie is texting on his mobile.
At her locker, Jessica receives the text.
Frowning, Jessica shakes her head.
She texts back.
Robbie receives the text.
Robbie stands.
A blonde girl smiles.
He sits back down.
Emily comes out of the assistant principal's office to Robbie, who is waiting.
They traipse out together.
Robbie chuckles softly.
Emily smiles and puts an arm around his shoulder.
In her office, Emily types at her computer.
She glances up as Robbie glides past her desk on an office chair.
He stops opposite her.
She glances at a photo on the shelf, then looks at Robbie.
Robbie shrugs.
It's a photo of her and Cal.
She lays it face down and turns back to Robbie.
She frowns.
She smiles, takes a deep breath and continues typing.
She nods somberly.
She knits her fingers together,
and puts her head against her hands.
David smiles.
Robbie shakes his head disapprovingly.
Emily heads off.
David swaggers away, then pauses.
He turns back and eyes Robbie, who stares back at him impassively.
David heads back to Emily's office.
He glances around and enters with a grin on his face.
David sits.
Robbie pulls a lever under his chair.
It rises up, so he looks down on David.
She frowns at David.
David waves.
Robbie places the photo of Emily and Cal firmly at the front of his mom's desk and marches out.
They're in the gym.
Jacob does push-ups on a handstand.
They're in a sauna.
Cal passes out into Jacob's crotch.
At the busy bar.
Jacob and Cal are at the bar.
Cal taps his empty glass.
Jacob frowns at him.
Cal looks.
Jacob tweaks his nose.
Cal eyes his wedding ring, then slips it off.
They walk through the bar.
Jacob saunters away.
Cal sits down next to the pretty woman, who is around He eyes her intently.
The waitress leaves.
Cal bites his lip.
He winks at her and takes a drink.
Back at Cal's apartment, they snog passionately in the dim light.
She takes off his jacket.
She kisses him.
She draws back abruptly.
She pushes him onto the couch.
She puts her leg up on the sofa.
She leaps on him and straddles him.
The next morning, he shows her out of the apartment.
Kate's hair is disheveled.
They kiss.
She leaves.
Cal closes the door.
He eyes an attractive young brunette woman.
He talks to a pretty petite woman at the bar.
Another young woman shows him her ring.
At a table, he talks to yet another beautiful woman.
Smartly dressed in different suits, Cal talks to women over a series of nights.
In various places throughout the bar, Cal talks to lots of different women.
Cal heads out hand-in-hand with an attractive young woman in a slinky green dress.
At the bar, Jacob smirks and rubs his head.
Cal and Jacob drink at the bar.
Liz sits at the bar.
She's on her mobile.
Jessica is home.
At school, Jessica takes books out of her locker.
She peeks out from behind her locker door at a girl of her own age with long blonde hair.
The girl heads off down the corridor.
Jessica stalks after her.
Jessica jogs around a corner.
The girl is waiting for her.
She claps her hands together like flippers.
Madison heads out.
As she opens the door, light streams across Jessica's face.
The kids glance over at something.
Some have stopped to stare.
Outside, there's a red curtain set out in the middle of a yard.
There's a crowd gathered around it.
Jessica and her friends approach the curtain.
It drops.
Robbie stands on a platform behind it.
Jessica drops her tray.
He stares at her.
Robbie looks at her gravely.
She walks off.
Robbie watches her with sad eyes.
He lets out a big sigh.
He trudges back into school.
Bright sunlight filters through the trees in Emily's garden.
The hedge is snipped with a large pair of shears.
The rose bush is pruned with a pair of clippers.
Somebody mows the grass.
Emily watches from the porch with a smile.
David is mowing the grass.
He wears jeans and a white T-shirt with a deep V.
He grins back at Emily,
who licks her lips salaciously.
Cal wakes with a jolt.
He gets up.
The ball falls from a tree in Emily's garden.
Cal falls out of the branches of the tree.
He remains stock still and regards the house intently.
Cal waters the flower beds in the garden.
He glances back at the house.
He prunes one of the rose bushes.
He treads over the lawn with shoes with long metal spikes on the bottom.
He trims the hedge.
He treads over the lawn the other way.
He sidles across it.
A security light comes on.
He freezes.
He makes a run for it.
Cal plays catch with Robbie.
They both wear baseball gloves.
Robbie nods.
Cal raises his brows,
then squints at Robbie.
Cal lobs the ball at Robbie, who catches it in his baseball glove and beams.
He throws it back.
Jessica's parents, ex-friend Bernie and Claire are there.
Cal sits on a chair alone in a corridor, his brow furrowed.
He stares ahead.
He glances to his right as Emily approaches from the other direction.
Cal stands.
She smiles shyly.
He beams brightly at her.
They both take a seat on either side of a door in front of the lockers.
They shuffle awkwardly in their seats.
They both knit and unknit their fingers.
Cal looks down at the floor.
Cal nods and looks down.
He shakes his head.
Emily takes a deep breath.
Cal smiles serenely.
His expression becomes serious.
Emily's eyes well with tears.
Kate forces a grin.
Kate yanks the door angrily.
Kate closes her eyes.
Kate takes a deep, calming breath.
She stands and touches her temple gently.
Emily smiles coldly and turns to face Cal.
Emily gawks at him.
He raises his brow but looks down.
She opens and closes her mouth, and nods her head.
Cal shakes his head and stares at his feet.
He sighs.
A gentle smile creeps across his face.
Tearfully, Emily smiles.
A crowd has gathered.
Cal turns to Emily sheepishly.
She glares at him.
Cal hangs his head and shakes it.
He looks up.
His eyes dart around.
Emily walks away.
Cal turns to watch her go.
Emily gets into her car and drives off.
Bernie and Claire walk away.
It starts to rain.
Jacob sits alone in his smart, minimalist apartment, eating a bowl of cereal and studying the packet.
A large black and white abstract painting hangs behind him.
Emily drives through the night.
At the wheel, she shakes her head in disbelief.
She blinks and sighs heavily.
Cal leans against his car outside the school and lets the rain soak him.
The gentle golden glow of a street light shimmers on the rain-slick road.
People with umbrellas hurry into a restaurant.
Hannah, her boyfriend, other colleagues and Liz sit around a table in the restaurant.
Whilst her colleagues laugh, Liz signals to a waiter.
Hannah look disappointed.
Liz gapes over at the couple, her eyes wide, her expression anxious.
Hannah eyes her boyfriend searchingly.
Hannah steps in close to him.
He raises a hand.
She grabs a guy's drink and gulps it.
She heads off.
Hannah marches out high-fiving Liz on the way.
Hannah strides through the rain.
In the bar, Jacob is flirting with a blonde woman.
Frowning, Jacob turns and smiles at Hannah curiously.
Rain drenched, she storms over to him, grabs his face in her hands and kisses him hard.
Slowly, Jacob reaches around her waist.
He pulls her to him and lifts her gently off the ground, still locked in a passionate embrace.
After some time, Hannah pulls away and looks him straight in the eye.
Jacob smiles happily.
Hannah nods curtly and kisses him again.
Jacob puts her back down.
She drags him out of the bar.
The woman he was flirting with earlier stares at them incredulously as they leave.
Hannah stands in the living room of Jacob's apartment, watching the rain through the tall glass windows.
Jacob pours liquor onto a sugar lump in a glass, then crushes the lump with a pestle.
He pours in more liquor and some ice cubes.
He grates some orange peel into the drink.
A stylus lowers onto a record.
Jacob goes into the living room carrying two drinks.
Hannah stands in her knee-length black dress fidgeting nervously.
He hands her the glass.
She glugs down her drink at top speed.
She cringes.
She shakes her head.
She grabs the other drink off Jacob and starts gulping that down.
She gags.
She hands back both empty glasses.
Jacob heads over to a coffee table to put them down.
Hannah does a nervous twirl.
Jacob takes off his jacket and sits down.
Jacob squeezes his hands into fists.
He points to himself.
He nods and smiles.
He takes off his top to reveal a tanned, muscular torso with a six pack.
Hannah scrutinizes him.
He looks down at himself.
She touches him.
She gawks at him.
He smiles smugly.
She limbers up.
She runs at him.
He lifts her up.
Her legs flop.
Then she lifts them up.
Slowly, he spins around, then stops.
She lowers her legs.
He lets her fall into his arms so she's pressed up against his body.
He lets her slide gently down until her feet touch the floor.
He presses his forehead against hers.
Clearly hypnotized by his move and his good looks, she forces herself to take a step back.
Cal hurries into the bar.
He surveys it, studying the bar and various men and women chatting and flirting with one another.
Wet from the rain, he steps further into the bar.
In his bedroom, Jacob leans over Hannah, who lies back on the bed.
He kisses her.
He kisses her again.
He leans down to kiss her again.
Still wearing his trousers, he lies between her open legs.
He pulls away from her.
He flops onto the bed.
In the garage, Hannah sits in the massage chair, wrapped in a sheet.
They lie on the bed laughing.
He smiles.
Jacob licks his lips.
He nods.
Jacob has fallen asleep with his glass in his hand.
Hannah takes the glass,
and puts it on a chest of drawers,
then pulls the sheet up over him.
She gazes at him and smiles.
She props herself up in bed, leans over and kisses him on the cheek.
Then lies back down resting her head on his shoulder, nuzzles into him and closes her eyes.
Cal's brow is knitted as he talks on the phone.
Cal sits at the bar drinking on his own.
The bartenders are cleaning up.
Cal looks over at a balding guy opposite him and of a similar age.
The guy sips his drink through a straw.
He notices Cal eying him and raises his brows in acknowledgment.
With a sad expression, Cal picks up his mobile.
In a restaurant, Emily's phone rings.
She hangs up.
Heading back to her house,
David leans in and kisses her.
The door opens.
They both nod awkwardly.
David glances at Jessica and smiles.
He heads off.
Jessica has her arms folded and grins.
Emily heads in.
Jessica shrugs and shakes her head.
Jessica strides off.
Emily goes in,
and shuts the door behind her.
She has a clutch bag in one hand and a bunch of flowers in the other.
She tosses the flowers on a chest of drawers in the hall.
Robbie sits on the stairs, watching her.
But she passes without noticing it.
Someone pedals furiously on a bike.
At home, in her room, Jessica gets out a camera from her drawer.
He has the bunch of flowers with him.
Studying her reflection in a mirror, she dons mascara.
It's Robbie pedaling through the night.
Jessica brushes out her long, dark hair,
and sweeps eyeshadow across her lids.
She applies a peachy-colored lipstick to her lips,
presses them together, then pouts in the mirror.
She puts the camera on a shelf in her room.
The light on it flashes.
She stands a few feet away in her dressing gown.
She turns to face the camera and undoes the ties on her dressing gown.
She take a deep breath and drops the gown to the floor.
She does a big, cheesy grin as the camera takes a picture, then frowns and shakes her head.
She sets up the camera again and tries a variety of poses, attempting to be sexy.
She rips a cute kitten poster off the wall.
She prints out one of the photos,
puts it in an envelope,
and writes Cal's name on the envelope.
She stops decorating the envelope.
She opens the front door to find a bunch of lilies,
Jessica picks up the bunch of flowers and reads the note.
She shakes her head and stares out into the night.
Cal is doing guerrilla gardening again.
Cal puts the tools back in the shed.
From in the house.
Cal turns towards the house.
He watches as Molly and Robbie hurry to the table.
Emily traipses through the house to another room.
She picks up a phone and dials.
In the garden, Cal takes his phone out.
Cal eyes Emily nervously.
Cal watches Emily, who is not in the basement at all.
Emily smiles.
Cal's eyes are full of tenderness.
Emily hangs up and looks down sadly.
Cal hangs up, still watching her from the garden.
Emily heads back to the kids.
The wheels of a trolley rotate on a shiny floor.
Cal is in a DIY store with Robbie and Molly.
Cal picks up a wooden trellis.
Jacob is in a wine shop.
Jacob turns to Hannah.
He pinches her nose,
then kisses her.
They head off.
In Jessica's bedroom, her mom, Claire, is putting away clean laundry.
As she puts something in her drawer, she spots the envelope.
She takes it out to see Cal's name written on it in big letters.
She opens the envelope and partially pulls out the photo from inside.
She gasps, horrified.
Emily drives her SUV along her leafy, suburban street and turns into her driveway.
Robbie is standing in the front garden.
Her brow furrowed Emily stares at him.
He waves.
Her brow furrowed, Emily stares at him.
Claire comes down the stairs in a state of shock.
Bernie is sitting on the couch, watching TV.
Bernie takes a swig of Coca-Cola.
Claire grabs Bernie's shoulder from behind the couch and hands him the envelope.
Bernie gives Claire a little frown and turns back to the TV.
Absentmindedly, he opens the envelope and glances down at the photo.
He freezes.
There are several photos in there.
He goes through them.
His jaw goes slack.
Jessica, who is lying on the floor nearby, spots the envelope.
Bernie races her from the couch to the door.
Bernie backs out of the driveway.
Bernie speeds along the road, gripping the steering wheel.
Jessica follows him honking on the horn desperately.
Jessica runs a red light.
Going into the back garden, Molly hands her a glass of champagne.
There's a Crazy Golf windmill.
Bernie floors Cal.
Jacob pulls Bernie off Cal.
Bernie punches Jacob.
Bernie wrenches the sails off the windmill.
Bernie drops the sails.
All four guys wrestle.
They struggle, tangled together.
They fall.
They sit on a wall side by side, David with an icepack on his cheek.
Police officers.
They head off.
Jacob laughs.
David and Bernie turn to look at Cal.
The police officers leave.
Emily takes a big sigh.
Hannah and Jessica stare at the ground.
Bernie gets up.
Jessica scurries after Bernie.
She runs her fingers through her ponytail nervously.
Robbie watches them go.
He gets up and jogs around the corner after them.
He stops.
Bernie is limping slightly.
They reach the end of the driveway.
Jessica glances back at Robbie.
She looks ashamed.
Robbie turns away and shuffles back, dejectedly.
The other three men are still sitting on the wall.
Cal stands.
Emily smiles bitterly and shakes her head.
Hannah frowns.
Her eyes fill with hurt.
Emily gawks at him.
Hannah gives Jacob a small nod.
He gets up.
She turns and wanders away, Jacob follows.
Emily glares at Cal.
Molly comes out.
Hannah and Jacob leave.
Robbie lets his head drop forward.
His brow furrowed, Cal looks down at the ground.
Emily eyes him angrily, her jaw clenched.
Cal heads off.
Emily folds her arms.
Cal approaches Robbie, who leans against the wall of the house.
Cal smiles.
Cal nods and leaves.
Molly sits down on the garden steps and puts her head in her hand.
Cal lumbers down the driveway.
In school, kids mill past Robbie, who sits alone on the stairs, his head bowed.
He presses Jessica's name on the contact list on his phone.
In her bedroom, Jessica lounges on her bed, staring into the distance.
Hannah and Jacob in Jacob's apartment.
Jacob holds out the phone to Hannah.
Emily sits at her desk in her office, writing.
She looks up and pouts sadly.
At school, students pour out of the building.
Cal stands outside by his car.
He spots Robbie.
But Robbie eyes him balefully and heads off on another direction.
Cal sits at the counter of the bar, his head resting on his hands.
He sits hunched, his head hung.
He raises his head.
Jacob sits down next to Cal.
Jacob scans the bar.
The bartender sells Cal a shot and shrugs at Jacob.
Cal and Jacob both stare down at the bar.
Jacob looks away.
Jacob cocks his head, then nods.
Cal sighs heavily.
Cal turns to Jacob.
Jacob shakes his head and shrugs his shoulders.
Cal gazes at him penetratingly.
Cal raises his brows.
Jacob looks at him directly and nods.
Jacob nods and turns away.
Cal turns and stares directly ahead.
Jacob gets off his bar stool and soldiers out.
He puts his hands in his pockets.
Cal downs his shot.
At school, all the kids have dressed smartly and lined up on a long row at the back of tiered seating constructed in the hall.
Cal walks past the kids and over to the seating.
He looks across the hall and spies Emily with Molly and Hannah.
His eyes light up hopefully.
He spots an empty seat next to Hannah.
Then he sees Jacob stamping over a chair to take the seat next to her.
Cal looks away.
He heads upstairs and makes his way to a seat on the other side of the structure.
Cal points to a seat between a man and woman who are chatting.
The guy leans back so Cal can sit down.
On the stage, Robbie in a suit, sits slumped at the end of a row.
Cal eyes him and smiles softly.
Robbie looks up and sees Jessica sitting with her parents.
He looks down miserably.
The principal walks onto the stage and up to the podium.
Emily's jaw tightens.
Kate takes the podium.
Cal beams and claps proudly.
Emily, Molly, Hannah and Jacob clap and cheer.
Robbie gets up.
Jessica smiles.
Robbie plods over to the podium.
Emily smiles and glances at Molly.
Cal frowns.
Emily's face falls.
Robbie looks at Cal.
Cal stands up.
The audience all turn to him.
Cal makes his way down the seating structure, squeezing past Bernie.
Robbie's eyes start to find.
Kate leans into the principal.
Kate whispers something.
The principal nods.
Cal faces the audience.
Kate puts her middle finger up at him.
Cal turns to glance at Robbie.
Emily's eyes brim.
Tearfully, Emily smiles.
Claire and Bernie glance at each other and smile.
Emily's jaw slackens.
Cal turns back to Robbie.
Emily smiles.
Emily looks down.
Cal turns back to Robbie who beams.
Jessica hangs her head, giggling.
Emily laughs.
Claire glances at Jessica with a worried look.
Emily wipes away a tear.
Cal puts his arm around Robbie.
They leave the podium.
In the school grounds, the kids and parents stand around chatting.
Emily, Molly, Jacob and Hannah head over to Cal and Robbie.
Hannah and Cal wrap their arms around each other.
Cal eyes Jacob.
Hannah steps back.
Cal addresses Jacob.
Jacob steps forward nervously.
Cal holds out his hand.
They shake.
Jacob smiles.
Cal slaps Jacob.
Cal slaps Jacob again.
Jacob grins.
Robbie makes his way through the crowd.
He spots Jessica, who's wearing a pretty, orange dress.
Her long, dark hair in a plait which is curled around her long, slender neck.
Robbie's face lights up.
Jessica spots him.
She smiles.
Robbie heads over.
Jessica shakes her head.
Robbie nods.
He holds out his hand.
Jessica hands him a photo-sized envelope.
Robbie looks inside and is gob-smacked.
Jessica grins.
Robbie looks up and smiles.
Jessica bends down and gives him a peck on the cheek.
Jessica sweeps off.
Robbie turns to watch her go with his intense, brown eyes.
He looks down at the envelope and smirks.
He spies Cal smiling at him.
Cal waves.
Robbie waves back.
They both stand watching Robbie.
Cal and Emily look at each other.
Emily smiles.
Tears well in her eyes.
Emily laughs as tears roll down her cheeks.
Cal takes her hand.
Cal gazes at her tenderly.
Robbie watches from a distance.
Cal and Emily laugh together.
Robbie watches them with a warm smile,
then heads off.
A black sedan pulls into an empty car park in the early morning light.
A couple.
At work.
A warehouse.
He's in the toilet.
In Harken's office.
Harken pours Nick a big measure of whiskey from a cut-glass decanter and hands it to him.
The tumbler is nearly full.
Nick frowns.
Nick stares.
Nick starts for the door.
Harken watches from behind his desk as Nick picks up the tumbler of whiskey and glugs it all in one go.
It spills down his chin as he drains the glass.
At the dentist's, bearded Dale is assisting his attractive boss, Julia, with a patient.
A spraying device.
She sprays Dale's crotch.
Julia stands up.
She administers gas.
Kurt's boss, Jack, opens his car door.
Jack drives away from the chemical company.
Kurt spins around.
Kurt is with Dale.
Kurt spots a hot chick.
The premises of Comnidyne.
Staff are gathered in a meeting room.
Nick leafs through documents.
Nick puts down his documents.
Nick winks at a colleague.
Nick drags Harken through the office by his tie.
Nick smashes him through a window.
He plummets onto the roof of a parked car.
Colleagues clap and cheer.
Nick snaps to from his reverie.
Nick chases after him.
Harken stares blankly.
Nick glares stony-faced as Harken creases up.
Harken turns back.
Harken steps closer.
Harken turns and walks away.
Brow furrowed, Nick looks at the floor.
Kurt shows up for work at Pellit and Sons.
As he takes off his jacket, Jack's son, Bobby, scoots back in his black leather office chair and glowers.
He's short with a goatee, a high forehead and wispy, thin comb-over.
He scoots back into the office.
Kurt goes through to him.
A guy in a wheelchair.
She's practically nude.
Julia locks Dale in.
She's wearing nothing but lacy knickers, stockings, and suspenders beneath an open lab coat.
She smirks.
He sidles nervously to a chair and sits down.
She slowly runs her fingers along his beard and then his chest.
She clutches his balls.
She lets go.
He frantically rattles the handle of the locked door.
He exits.
Night, at the bar.
Kenny takes the cash they offered and goes.
Dale is filling out a form in the dentist's office when he suddenly has his eyes covered.
Julia gives smiley blonde Stacy a hug.
They turn to a troubled-looking Dale, who forces a smile.
Off they go.
Stacey is gassed.
Julia dives for Dale's crotch.
A tablet computer.
She holds it up.
Compromising photos of Julia faking a variety of sex acts with an unconscious Dale.
Doggy style.
She winks and leaves the room.
Exasperated, Dale's eyes rove in thought.
His car screeches to a halt, mounting the curb as he parks outside Nick's place.
He goes inside.
Nick and Kurt are playing video games.
The next night, a laid-back Nick strolls along a walkway at a Travel Inn.
Clean-shaven with short, dark brown hair, he wears jeans and a shirt with the sleeves rolled up.
He comes to a room and knocks gently on the door.
Dale answers, leaving the security chain fastened.
Nick grabbed him.
Dale and Kurt run to the window and see a man dressed in black get out of a black muscle car.
Kurt and Dale share an excited look and clench their fists.
Kurt pauses to compose himself, then opens the door and says.
Kurt points.
The sharp-suited man wears dark glasses.
He enters the room.
He takes off his shades.
He throws a plastic sheet down.
The guys are in Kurt's car.
They drive into a rough neighborhood.
They near a bar.
They enter the bar.
It's bustling with shady clientele.
Kurt nods to a musclebound guy as they head to the bar.
To a Latino and, finally, to the heavyset, black barman.
The barman bridles.
A guy eyes them as they leave.
The guy from inside.
They follow the black guy, who has a shaven head and several tattoos.
Jones glares at them.
Harken smashes his office wall down with a sledgehammer.
His extended office now complete, Harken removes a strip of clear plastic from a plaque on the door and buffs it with his sleeve.
Nick glowers.
Nick withdraws money from his bank account.
Balding Bobby Pellitt is partying hard with three Thai hookers in skimpy underwear.
He snorts a line of cocaine from one's stomach.
They writhe in orgiastic abandonment.
He's in his office.
Kurt's in the main office.
He frowns as Bobby's bare torso presses up against the window.
At home, Kurt raids a private stash of money.
Now in the main office, Bobby looks over at Kurt and gives him the finger as he smooches with one of the women.
Kurt frowns.
Bobby's shirt is open, exposing his bloated stomach.
He holds up Hank's handicapped parking pass.
At the dentist, Julia licks the back of Dale's neck, then sucks his left earlobe and jams her tongue in his ear.
He furrows his brow as she tweaks his nipples.
She grins, then slaps his ass.
Wearing a black hoodie and dark glasses, Dale withdraws money from a cash point in a gas station mini-mart.
The guys sit opposite Jones at a table in a dingy bar.
They push a large briefcase towards him, and he opens it.
It's empty, apart from a small bundle of bank notes.
He snaps it shut.
Jones sips his drink.
He beckons them closer, and they lean forward.
He reaches inside his jacket.
The guys consider for a moment.
Nick stares down, brow creased.
He takes the briefcase.
Nick is at work.
Harken harangues an employee within earshot of Nick.
Nick takes a pen and slides it down his throat, causing himself to vomit into his wastepaper basket.
Nick wipes his mouth.
Nick picks up the plastic bin and heads out.
The guys drive down a leafy, suburban street.
They gaze over at a large house.
Kurt grins.
Night falls.
Chewing on snacks, they all share a look.
They get out of the car.
They quickly hide as Bobby's garage door swings open.
An orange Pontiac Trans Am tears out and drives off down the street.
Nick and Kurt roll under the slowly closing garage door.
Dale bashes into it.
The door opens again.
In the house.
Tasteless artifacts.
A deep tray of cocaine about the size of a CD case.
He drops it.
A cocaine cloud hangs in the air.
Kurt enters the bedroom where there's a large Japanese style portrait of Bobby brandishing nunchucks.
He pockets something from the dresser.
Nick, who wears a short sleeved T shirt, watches Dale pick up the tray.
Kurt uses his sleeve gloves to turn the light on in Bobby's on-suite bathroom.
He spots Bobby's toothbrush.
He takes it from his holder, slides it down his ass crack and has a good scrub.
He puts it back.
A Dustbuster vacuum.
Dale's hoody is dusted with cocaine.
He tries to sweep it off.
Kurt picks up Bobby's razor.
He pops it down the back of his trousers.
In the open plan living space, Nick dumps the contents of the Dustbuster into the cocaine tray.
The tray is now full of dust, cocaine and debris.
Nick is stony-faced.
Kurt finds dental floss.
Dale sniffs and flexes his jaw.
Kurt finishes up in the bathroom.
He turns the light off and leaves.
In the living room.
Kurt slaps Dale.
Dale rolls his shoulders.
Street lamps illuminate the darkened street as they drive on.
They pull up outside Harken's palatial home and park in the shadows.
Approaching the front door.
They climb over a low hedge and peer in through the windows.
Something catches Nick's eye.
He takes a rock from a plant pot by the door.
He tosses it to Kurt.
Nick takes a key from the rock.
They enter the spacious hallway.
Hanging in the lounge is a portrait of Harken with his wife and their cat.
The cat leaps onto Nick's shoulder and bolts.
Dale sings along to the radio in the car.
Kurt and Nick start across the landing, where life size cat figurines rest on small podiums.
A porcelain cat's face hangs on the wall.
The real cat leaps from a sideboard.
A photograph.
He reorientates the phone screen and throws a food wrapper out of the car window.
Harken jogs up in a mismatched designer track suit.
Preoccupied with his iPhone, Dale doesn't see him.
Harken picks up the wrapper and glowers.
Dale spins around.
Harken collapses.
Dale plunges an EpiPen injection into Harken's chest.
Kurt looks out of a bedroom window.
They see Dale pounding Harken's chest.
Kurt unwittingly drops Bobby's mobile as they hurry out.
He drives the long needle into Harken's neck as Kurt and Nick leg it out of the house.
A car pulls up.
He comes to.
She kisses Dale.
Harken snatches the EpiPen.
Nick and Kurt walk together.
Dale screeches up in Kurt's Volkswagen.
Traffic streams along a highway as night turns to day.
The guys stride down a supermarket aisle like they mean business.
Nick finds rat poison.
He compares two brands, Rat Attack and Rat Out.
He opts for the Rat Attack.
Kurt tries out some binoculars.
He hones in on a tight backside and smiles.
Lowering the binoculars, he sees that the ass belongs to a guy holding a yucca plant.
Kurt blanches and returns the binoculars to the shelf.
Dale happens upon jars of peanuts.
There's an offer on, three for one, $He fills his basket with jars.
The guys leave.
Dale is laden with three carryout bags of nuts.
The guys get in their separate cars.
Kurt reverses his white sedan, making way for Dale and Kurt who close in on the same narrow gap and stop.
Kurt falters, then drives in front of Nick and circles the two cars to bring up the rear.
As Nick drives off to the right, Dale goes to turn left, blocking Kurt who brakes jerkily.
The sun sets beyond the city limits and day turns to night.
The guys park outside the houses of their assigned bosses.
Dale waits outside Harken's.
Two Thai sex workers leave Bobby's.
One was a man dressed as a woman.
Bobby goes back indoors.
Kurt spies Julia through binoculars.
She goes to the boot of her car.
As she bends over to retrieve a bag, Kurt ogles her backside.
As sultry Julia heads indoors, Kurt's phone rings.
Seeing a light come on in Harken's place, he shuts the player and pays attention.
In a walk-in wardrobe, Harken sniffs one of his wife's dresses and roots through her handbag.
He walks into the lounge.
Harken's gray mackerel striped tabby cat is stretched out under a chair, purring up Bobby's phone.
Harken grabs the phone and brings up a profile of its owner, complete with name, photograph and details.
Dale ducks down in his car seat as Harken drives past in his SUV.
Nick watches from his car as Bobby jumps around by the window in silk pajamas, flailing a pair of nunchucks.
He considers for a moment.
Carrying a jar of peanuts, Dale sneaks through Harken's house.
He puts a light on in the bedroom and goes to the door of the on-suite bathroom.
He opens it and the cat leaps out at him.
He falls against the shower.
He picks up a bottle of shampoo.
His eyes move between the shampoo and the peanuts.
Nick sees Bobby's bedroom lights go out.
He heaves a sigh and looks at his box of Rat Attack.
He answers his phone.
Bobby answers the door to Harken, who hands him his phone and shoots him in the chest.
He ducks down in his car as Harken flees the scene in his Nick yanks his seatbelt, but it won't budge.
Panicking, Dale tidies Harken's shower soaps and legs it with the peanuts.
A speed camera snaps a picture of Nick as he hurtles through a red light.
The guys meet in a bar.
They get in Nick's car.
A squad car has blocked them in.
A black officer strolls over and taps on Nick's window.
The cop peers in.
They're in the back of the cop car.
At the precinct.
Dale, Kurt and the two detectives stare at Nick.
Nick frowns.
Kurt's face drops as he recalls scrubbing his backside with Bobby's toothbrush.
The guys find Jones drinking in the bar.
Jones cocks an eyebrow and shoots them a look.
They huddle closer.
Jones smirks and sips his drink.
The guys ride in Kurt's car.
He drives up outside Harken's house.
They sneak into Harken's house.
Kurt squats by her.
Rhonda smiles at him.
Harken enters.
Harken stomps out of the room.
Kurt heads for Rhonda.
Nick and Dale.
Kurt emerged from the bathroom with Rhonda close behind.
In the car.
Cops.
Kurt drives off.
Harken rams them in his SUV.
He rams them again.
They weave around a car.
Julia is naked in a bath.
Kurt accelerates.
Harken rams their back end side-on to spin them around.
Julia masturbates.
They swerve wildly through traffic.
Kurt hangs a sharp left into an empty street.
Harken smashes into them in his The airbags go off.
Harken taps on the window with his revolver.
Kurt lowers his window.
They get out.
He holds them at gunpoint.
Harken shoots himself.
The gun.
Harken sinks to the floor and clutches his leg.
Dale tosses the gun down.
The guys high-five.
Harken goes for Kurt, but Nick smacks him hard in the face, knocking him to the ground.
Luke smirks.
He pats her.
She pulls the patient's trousers down.
She leans in towards the patient's crotch.
The patient sits up, laughing.
In an office, a handsome, well-groomed man checks his cell phone and answers.
On a cell phone, in the food court, a plump redhead smiles and pumps her fist.
Now, in a cluttered house, she wipes her hair dry and punches numbers into a keypad.
Along a mirror, fake IDs with the redhead's photo hang from a string.
A machine spits out a credit card with Sandy's name on it.
The redhead adds it to a stack of fake cards and walks off with a determined expression.
Now, at a hip bar, she enters wide-eyed and approaches the bartender.
She eyes two men doing shots.
She hands him Sandy's credit card.
She downs a shot with the guys.
Now, the redhead chugs a bottle of green liqueur.
She finishes it off and raises her arms.
The bartender adds drinks to her tab, totaling over $2,Standing on a table, she throws a bottle.
She leaps for the chandelier and lands flat on the floor.
The bar patrons watch her lie motionless.
As a few of them reach down and poke her, she springs up.
The frustrated bartender makes his way over as she high- fives patrons.
She punches him in the throat.
He collapses.
Now, a police car pulls up to the bar.
Later, two officers escort her out.
She breathes into a tube and spews green vomit on the officer.
As he shakes it off, she turns to the other officer.
At the police station, the plump identity thief stands in front of a height chart.
Now, the real Sandy sits in front of a birthday cake, surrounded by his beautiful wife and two young daughters.
She gives him a paper tie.
He picks her up.
He puts her face in the cake.
She straddles Sandy's lap and looks him in the eyes.
He pulls her close and kisses her tenderly.
She raises her brow.
He carries her out of the room.
Day time.
Sandy slowly drives down a congested highway.
Later, carrying a briefcase, the well-groomed businessman walks through an enclosed courtyard and enters an office building.
Now, Sandy steps off an elevator and walks to his office.
A co-worker wearing a suit approaches.
Sandy puts down a file and follows Cornish's assistant.
He peeks into an office, where Cornish beckons him to enter.
Cornish gestures to an earphone.
He keeps Sandy from sitting.
Cornish shuts the door.
Now, Sandy inputs a code into a keypad and enters the records room.
He makes his way to a computer station behind a cage wall.
He holds up a small packet that lists the partners with substantial bonuses by their names.
The bottom name reads Harold Cornish $million
On the computer, he types Cornish's name onto a check, then answers his cell phone.
He looks at his phone.
His co-worker enters.
Sandy watches the man leave.
Later, he approaches his co-worker in the garage.
More co-workers step out and include Sandy in a circle.
Wide-eyed, Sandy glances at his co-workers.
Staring down, a smile creeps across Sandy's face as he considers.
He raises his gaze and nods.
Now, Sandy's daughter kicks a soccer ball off a field.
Her mother cheers from the sidelines.
Sandy approaches his wife.
She jumps back with surprise.
He speaks to her with his hands gently holding her face.
Holding her hand over her mouth, she jumps with joy and gives Sandy a hug.
He smiles and lifts her off her feet.
Now, the plump identity thief sips from a straw as she rides down an escalator.
At a store, she tries on a ring.
Now, in cosmetics.
Two women laugh as they watch the cosmetics girl apply makeup to the redhead.
At a cell phone kiosk.
The man smiles.
At the center of the mall, a mother and daughter sit on a jet ski.
The redhead buys it.
At a Brookstone, she sleeps on a massage chair with her open mouth drooling.
An employee approaches.
He pokes her.
She sorts through a stack of Sandy's cards.
Now, Sandy and his daughters brush their teeth.
In his car, Sandy smiles and bobs his head as he taps his thumbs on the steering wheel.
He glances down at the dashboard, where the low-gas light blinks on.
His smile fades.
He pulls into a gas station.
At the pump, Sandy puts in his credit card.
Holding the card to his mouth, he breathes on the strip, then wipes the card on his jacket.
Sandy pushes the card in again.
Inside, the attendant stands behind a clear protective glass, talking on an earpiece.
The attendant swipes the card.
He talks into his earpiece.
The attendant points to his earpiece.
He slides Sandy the cut card.
Now, in Sandy's car.
A police car pulls up behind him.
Now, officers emerge from the cruiser.
Sandy peeks out the window as one of the officers approaches.
The other officer stands back with his hand by his sidearm.
The detective touches his phone.
Now, the detective returns with a file.
He hands Sandy the thief's haggard mug shot.
He leaves Sandy shaking his head.
Now, the family man parks a Subaru.
He enters a modern office and passes a company logo.
He goes to a glass door and pushes it open.
He admires his new office as his former coworker, now new boss, approaches.
Four cops stand at reception.
Later, as men put lids on boxes, the lead detective approaches Sandy and his boss.
Sandy faces his boss, who turns to the detective.
The detective leaves, while the boss lingers with his arms folded.
Sandy gazes at the floor, then rises and watches the men leave.
Holding his cell phone, he looks at the salon number displayed in red.
He glances up, then down to the number's origin.
The detective glances at Daniel, who rubs his face with one hand.
Sandy runs off.
Sandy's wife helps him pack.
Sandy shrugs at his wife.
He sets her on the bed.
He takes the folded mug shot from his back pocket.
She gives him a little nudge.
Sandy heads out.
He kisses Trish.
She hands him his suitcase.
Now, a plane sails across the sky.
Our view moves over a sunny beach toward a city skyline.
Outside Ladies Choice salon.
Sandy rolls up his window in a gold Sedan.
The plump thief strolls into view in a loud pink print shirt and poofy hair.
She walks in slow motion.
Sandy observes her go to a tiny blue Fiat with a red stripe on its side.
She bounces to the driver's door and gets in.
The garishly made-up woman takes a handicapped parking tag off the rear view mirror and tosses in back.
Sandy puts his seat belt on as the woman zips out of her parking space.
Now, on on a freeway, Sandy tails the thief while she plays with her smartphone.
She looks in her rear view and catches sight of him.
Setting her phone down, the redhead takes her sunglasses off, looks into the driver's side mirror, and gives her car some gas.
Odometer needle rises.
Sandy presses his accelerator.
The speedometer ticks up to The woman tightens her mouth and slams on the brakes with both feet.
The sedan bangs the Fiat's rear bumper.
In her rear view, she sees Sandy white-knuckling his wheel.
She puts her sunglasses on and primps her hair, then gets out.
The short woman looks up at Sandy, then punches his throat.
She pushes him and goes for her car.
 He pulls her hair.
She delivers a swift kick to his crotch.
Sandy sags as she runs to his car.
She gets into his sedan.
Sandy limps toward her.
She reverses while flipping him off.
He shambles back to her Fiat and gets in.
He discovers the key missing.
In the rear view, he sees an empty road.
She comes it through from the sides.
The sedan T-bones the compact.
She pins it to the guardrail.
Sandy tries in vain to open the crushed door as she speeds down the highway.
He reaches through the sunroof.
He finds a pink registration form in the glove box.
He takes it out.
He reads the address.
Now, in a tiny pink house with a jet ski on the lawn, a variety of small expensive products in sets of three or more clutters the kitchen.
The redhead grabs Sandy's suitcase.
She unzips it, finding some clothes and a toiletry bag.
Outside, a blue and yellow taxi arrives.
Sandy exits the back holding the pink slip.
A huge sweat stain runs down the front of his shirt.
He pays the driver and eyes the house, then proceeds in a stealthy jog along the side.
An even larger sweat stain covers his back.
Looking around, he cautiously enters the back gate.
Through a window, Sandy spots the redhead rummaging through his toiletries.
She aggressively rubs his deodorant onto her armpits as he creeps into the room.
He pulls out handcuffs.
She complies.
She punches his throat.
He grabs her leg, knocking her down.
She grabs and slaps his face.
Standing, she backs him into the counter and throws him over a chair.
As she bolts, Sandy hurls a small appliance.
He whacks her with a guitar.
A bunch of IDs.
Two thugs stand at the door.
Gunshot blasts off the door knob.
Sandy and Diana bolt as the woman bursts in with her male partner wielding a short gun.
Diana pierces two of their tires with a knife and hurries into Sandy's car.
Sandy reverses over her mailbox and into the neighbor's yard knocking over a sign.
He cuffs their hands together.
The female thug rips the knife from the tire as Sandy speeds off.
She picks the lock.
She frees herself.
She reaches into her shirt.
Sandy pulls over.
She hitchhikes.
Diana glares.
She bolts.
Sandy easily catches up to the overweight woman.
Diana snatches his keys and runs.
Slowly running, she flashes her middle finger.
Sandy jogs in front of her as Diana stumbles to a stop.
Sandy rolls his eyes.
He crosses his fingers.
Diana stares in his eyes, then limps toward the car.
Sandy follows her.
Sandy retrieves the keys from the middle of the highway and hurries back to the car.
Now, in an auto garage, a muscular tattooed mechanic works.
The female thug watches him nearby.
She lifts her phone.
The aging man sits in a jail cell.
Julian furrows his brow.
The prisoner pays the guard.
In Sandy's car.
With her lips pursed, Diana faces him with wide eyes.
She dances in her seat.
Sandy changes the station.
Sandy glares as she mimes playing instruments.
They speed over a bridge spanning a small river.
Elsewhere, a roughneck man with weathered skin and a gray goatee approaches a van.
Now in his brand new van the aging man arrives at the strip mall.
He stops outside the salon and peers inside.
Entering, he finds a young brunette stylist sweeping the floor.
The stylist nods and smiles as he eyes the salon.
Lifting a glass container, he casually pours out the Barbicide disinfectant and drops it on the floor.
He flips open a Zippo lighter and strikes it on his leg.
Her mouth hangs open.
She points to the desk.
At night, in Sandy's car.
Smiling, Diana applies makeup.
He faces forward with a stern gaze.
He shakes his head.
Now, as they enter a restaurant, a young red-haired waitress greets them.
The smiling waitress walks away.
He signals the waitress.
The waitress turns.
The shocked waitress eyes Sandy.
She glares at Sandy and leaves.
He looks upward.
The waitress returns with a mound of food.
She pulls her thumb from Sandy's soup.
As the waitress leaves, Diana takes a large bite of ribs.
Now, in a motel, they approach the front desk.
She leaves.
Diana enters The Foxhole.
A husky bearded man in a cowboy hat notices her.
He nods to himself as Diana sips her green beverage.
He turns away.
Looking up, she notices his Mercedes car key and thick gold ring on his pinky.
The man smiles.
He sits beside her.
Removing his hat, the man extends a hand.
He wears a turquoise bolo.
They toast and down their shots.
Now, they sit at a table with several empty shot glasses.
As they drink another shot, Diana slaps the table.
Sandy enters and scans the room.
Smiling, he approaches their table.
She points at Chuck.
She places a hand on Chuck's shoulder.
Big Chuck nods.
She leads Chuck to the dance floor.
Diana and Big Chuck shimmy.
With her eyes on Sandy, Diana pinches Chuck's nipples through his shirt.
Spinning around, Diana bends over and Big Chuck twirls his cowboy hat behind her like riding a bronco.
She stands and they continue dancing with her eyes on Sandy, who motions toward the door.
Facing Chuck, Diana shimmies in place.
She suddenly drops into a split with her face by his crotch.
Big Chuck points finger guns at Sandy, as Diana dances on the floor.
Now, they enter a motel room.
Sandy sets down his wallet.
Chuck walks into Diana's arms.
Big Chuck whips off his belt.
He swings the belt up from his crotch like an elephant's trunk, hitting Sandy in the face.
Chuck gives him a final belt slap, then drops it.
He aims a finger gun at his crotch and unbuttons his pants.
Chuck drops his pants.
She spanks Big Chuck as he rapidly knocks his knees.
Diana swipes the anxiety pills.
Stumbling back, Chuck pulls up his pants.
Big Chuck grabs her hips from behind.
They fall backwards onto the bed.
Big Chuck spreads his legs in the air.
He sits up.
Diana drops a pill into his cup, then pours two drinks as he twitches drunkenly.
She empties out a mini bottle and bites the top off another.
Shaking his cup, she turns with a playful smile and sashays back and forth.
Diana's smile quickly fades and she sets down the drinks.
Diana blinks her moist eyes.
He points to her blue gingham blouse.
Big Chuck tenses his face and nods.
Diana glances off with a sweet smile, as Chuck slowly removes his cowboy hat.
He gazes into her eyes.
She leaps on him.
Sandy listens from the bathroom and rubs his face.
Diana grips the bed as Chuck thrusts behind her.
Sandy covers his ears.
Falls onto her back.
Sandy turns on the shower.
Sandy ties a towel around his ears as Diana yanks on Chuck's neck with his belt.
Now, she holds his legs from behind and bounces rapidly.
Sandy buries his head in his hands.
Lying on the floor, Sandy kicks the wall.
Diana spots Big Chuck's wallet and car keys on a small table and her smile fades.
She finishes buttoning her shirt and glances back at the sleeping man.
She notices Sandy's wallet and phone by the room key on the dresser.
Stepping forward, she collects Sandy's things and grabs Big Chuck's belt off the floor.
The plump criminal shifts in place.
Sandy's eyes shoot open and he pulls the towel off his head.
Outside, she staggers away.
Sandy yanks on the bathroom door handle.
On the other side, Big Chuck's belt holds it closed.
She crosses the quiet motel parking lot with a backpack in hand.
Diana slings the bag over her shoulder and it slides off as she arrives at Sandy's car.
Sliding into the driver's seat, Diana tosses the bag into the next seat and places Sandy's phone in the center console.
She leans forward and inserts the key into the ignition.
Sitting back, Diana pulls a small amount of cash from Sandy's wallet and sifts through the bills.
Grabbing Sandy's cell phone, she admires the photo of his smiling daughters.
Diana holds the phone to her ear.
Tensing her face, Diana fights back tears.
The thief covers her eyes, then shifts her pained gaze around.
Diana closes her eyes and places both hands on the wheel.
Removing one, she rubs her forehead.
Now, she enters the motel room and puts Sandy's belongings back on the dresser.
Sandy crashes through the bathroom door.
He quickly kneels.
She moves across the room with the ice bucket and sets it on the bedside table.
Taking off the backpack, Diana lies down next to Big Chuck.
She takes all the blankets, revealing his naked rear end.
Sandy stands up and eyes the room.
The next morning, Sandy waits by the car as Diana approaches with sunglasses and disheveled hair.
At the front desk.
The attendant hands him a clipboard.
Outside, Diana opens the car door.
As Sandy pours himself a cup of coffee, the brown utility van pulls into the motel parking lot.
The skiptracer walks around and sees Diana sitting in the open passenger side.
Inside, Sandy stirs his coffee while the skiptracer pulls Diana from the car.
He notices the abduction through the window.
Sandy runs outside as the skiptracer pushes Diana into the van.
The skiptracer locks the door and hurries to the wheel.
Sandy runs over.
Sandy watches the van speed off.
He quickly shuts the passenger-side door and gets behind the wheel of his rental.
Sandy backs out of his parking spot and speeds away from the motel.
On a narrow country road, the skiptracer talks on his cell phone.
Sandy comes up on the van.
He moves into the oncoming lane and pulls up beside the van.
Diana opens a window.
Spotting an oncoming car, Sandy hits the brakes and swerves behind the van.
Diana pushes against the gated partition.
Sandy pulls up beside the van again.
The van speeds toward an intersection's red light.
Cars whiz by as the van turns sharply.
Sandy follows, barely dodging the oncoming vehicles.
His sedan skids up alongside another car and he peels away.
A two lane highway.
Sandy speeds up beside the skiptracer's van.
He swerves at Sandy, sending him into a grassy median.
Sandy recovers on the other side, facing oncoming traffic.
Speeding cars swerve out of his way.
Guardrails lie on both sides of the road trapping Sandy with the oncoming traffic.
The skiptracer peers out of his window, watching the businessmen at their numerous vehicles.
An speeds towards Sandy and he swerves toward the median.
The sedan launches off a mound of dirt and soars through the air.
It lands on its tires in the grass and Sandy rejoins the van on the right side of the road.
In the van, Diana pounds a cylinder against the partition lock and breaks through.
The skiptracer elbows her stomach and holds her back.
Diana punches him in the throat and he falls limply against the steering wheel.
Sandy slows down and lightly hits the back panel of the van, barely nudging it.
Diana notices a merge up ahead.
Sandy eyes the runaway van.
Gripping the steering wheel, he takes a breath.
He speeds into the side of the van causing it to flip over.
Sandy stares wide-eyed as the van continues to flip into the median.
He stops the car and watches the van land right side up.
Sandy unbuckles his seatbelt and slowly emerges from the car.
In slow motion, He hurries toward the van with his mouth dropped open.
Looking through the passenger side window, he sees the skiptracer lying groggily against the wheel.
The side door bursts open and Diana rolls onto her feet.
Blood drips from her nose.
She hugs him.
He glances back.
A tractor-trailer plows through the rental car tearing it to pieces.
Sandy stands motionless with his gaze fixed on the wreckage.
Sandy looks at her and softly nods.
Later, he drives the beat-up van along a narrow dirt road.
In an office, Big Chuck sits across from Marisol and Julian.
Big Chuck's smile fades.
Chuck eyes the thugs.
Julian slams Chuck's head against the desk.
Diana searches the van.
The temperature gauge rises.
Sandy pulls over as steam wafts from the hood.
Sandy steps out and approaches the steaming hood as Diana duct tapes the unconscious skiptracer.
She takes a sip.
She touches his pecs.
Her nose grazes his beard.
Sandy props the hood open and lets steam vent out.
He stares at the sign, then opens the van.
The skiptracer breathes deeply in his duct tape restraint.
Now, a state trooper waves on traffic past Sandy's wrecked sedan.
As Julian and Marisol cruise by, they overhear a witness.
Now, Sandy talks on his cell as he and Diana walk along a deserted road.
He shoots Diana a look.
She looks away.
At night, a pickup track approaches.
Her thumbs.
He shows her his phone.
Later, they start a fire.
He looks up and she shuts her eyes.
Sandy shrugs.
Sandy lies on his side next to the fire, and Diana snuggles up behind him.
She pulls her arm away.
A snake slithers toward them.
The snake moves closer.
He glances back at Diana as the snake slithers into his pants.
He springs up and fumbles with his jeans.
He pushes his pants off.
Sandy tosses his jeans into the woods.
A snake lowers from a tree.
It drops onto his shoulders.
She dips the stick into the fire.
She swings the stick.
The snake tightens around his neck.
The snake watches the flame, then bites into Sandy's neck.
Diana whacks it with a stick, and Sandy drops to the ground.
She hits it a few more times, then tosses away the stick.
Diana grabs the snake and tugs at it, as Sandy pries the reptile's teeth from his neck.
Diana tosses the snake away and shakes her hands.
In the morning, a cargo train passes by a rusty disheveled station.
Diana applies makeup while Sandy lies on a bench in a pair of dirt-covered khakis.
Sandy wakes up and reaches for his neck.
Diana watches him with a smile.
He walks away.
He moves to the ticket booth.
He looks back at Diana and paces.
Sandy reaches into his pockets and comes up empty.
He looks at Diana.
He walks back to the bench and sighs.
Sandy shakes his head.
Diana looks away somberly, as Sandy gazes down at his pants.
He sits beside her.
He kicks off the shoes and looks down.
He pulls out a wad of cash.
At the salvage yard.
Now, they pull out of the lot in an old, run-down Chevy Caprice.
At the bus station, the skiptracer limps in and takes a sip from the juice pouch.
Tossing it on the ground he walks over to the ticket booth.
The attendant recoils from the skiptracer's bloody face.
He looks around the empty station, then sees the attendant with the hand out.
The skiptracer twists his wrist.
He writes it down and hands the skiptracer a slip of paper.
The skiptracer holds his gun up to the window.
As he backs away, a bullet rips through his neck and shatters the glass.
Paolo's thugs approach with silenced pistols.
The skiptracer holds his neck wound as Julian takes the address.
Maricol looks at the attendant and holds her finger up to her lips.
The booth window falls apart.
Now, Sandy and Diana cruise down the highway toward a bridge.
In the car, Sandy's hardened gaze fixes ahead as Diana sits on her side facing him.
He swerves the car, smashing her head on the window.
He swerves again.
Later, they cruise over the Mississippi River into St. Louis.
The Gateway Arch stands tall over the city.
At a gas station, Sandy fills up as Diana emerges from the car.
Sandy looks up thoughtfully.
Diana falls in the lobby.
The security guard hurries over.
As he rubs Diana's leg, a businessman enters the executive fitness center.
Sandy glances around, then slips inside the closing door.
Sandy watches the man place his suit in a locker as the guard rubs Diana's butt.
The businessman closes his locker with the code and leaves.
Sandy quickly approaches.Sandy puts in a code and opens the locker.
He glances back with a smile.
Now, in a dapper suit and red tie, he strolls through the offices with Diana.
They spot a balding man behind a desk.
Diana and Sandy exchange a look.
She faces the man, shielding her mouth with her hand.
He lifts his phone.
Diana backs away.
He stares into Ken's eyes with his brow raised.
On a security monitor, Sandy enters the code.
Our view lowers inside the records room as a glass door and metal gate slide open.
Sandy and Diana briskly enter.
Pulling equipment from her bag, Diana hard-lines her credit card burner into the network as Sandy searches the shelves.
He finds Cornish's records in a box.
Diana plugs a flash drive into the credit card burner.
On the records computer, Sandy logs into the network.
He opens the folder.
In his office area, Ken stares off with a furrowed brow.
He sits at his computer and logs into company records.
Diana enters Cornish's information into a card burner and inserts a blank card.
On Ken's computer, he sees Cornish's actual photo.
Ken quickly stands.
The burner finishes processing and prints out the card.
Smiling, Diana hands it to Sandy.
 He eyes the card.
Ken swiftly moves through the offices and approaches the records room doors.
He inputs the code and they slide open.
As he quickly enters, Ken finds the room vacant.
He steps toward the computer with wide eyes.
Now, Sandy and Diana exit the building through an unmarked alley door.
She grabs the card.
Now, Sandy and Diana enter an upscale hotel lobby.
They approach reception.
In their silver sedan, Julian and Marisol speed across a bridge into St. Louis.
As she follows Sandy into the luxury suite, Diana mouth falls open.
She grabs a grape from a fruit platter.
Loosening his tie, Sandy enters a room and removes his suit coat.
He tosses it onto a chair and flops back on the bed.
Now, in a frothy bubble bath, Diana blows a handful of suds.
Diana finishes off a large bottle of champagne.
As Sandy sleeps in the same outstretched position.
Glancing around, she lowers the gushing shower head beneath the frothy surface.
She slaps the side of the tub.
Her foot jolts out of the water.
Now, Trish speaks on her phone.
Diana enters in a robe.
Now, in a salon, Diana gently applies lavender eye makeup to her already smoothered eyelids.
Three stylists watch as she moves around the sampling table and grabs a can of hair spray.
Diana shakes the can and sniffs it.
Then, sprays her hair.
Leaning back and forth, Diana douses her entire mop of hair.
She shakes her messy hair around, then faces the mirror.
Diana surrounds her head in a cloud of hairspray.
Looking up, she spots the giggling stylists, who abruptly stop and look away.
Diana blinks rapidly and shifts in place, then turns toward the checkout counter with an armful of products.
Striding forward, she stops and lowers her gaze.
Diana slowly turns around and approaches the stylists with her lips pressed together.
The male stylist steps forward.
Diana sits down and he spins her toward the mirror.
Now, in the swanky hotel restaurant, Sandy slouches alone at the bar with a glass of water.
Sitting up, he glances around the room, then takes a sip.
Wearing a chic black dress, Diana rounds the corner in slow motion, She steps forwad with her auburn hair straightened and makeup beautifully applied.
Sandy does a double-take.
She smiles and waves, shifting her timid gaze on the way to the bar.
He smiles at Diana as he stands.
She fingers her necklace.
Now, they sit at a table with a beautiful view of the Gateway Arch.
Sandy sips champagne and nods.
Her smile fades.
He stares into her somber eyes.
Diana sips champagne and wipes her eyes.
Sandy's gaze softens.
He faces the table as she wipes her cheeks and looks down at her hands.
He offers a napkin.
She takes another sip as Ken, the hotel manager, and several policemen enter behind Sandy.
As the officers cuff them, Sandy shares a frightened look with Diana.
An officer leads Sandy out while the others follow with Diana.
The restaurant patrons gawk from their tables.
The group proceeds past the hostess and into the hall, where an elevator arrives.
Wearing a nice suit and a sleek, black dress, Julian and Marisol enter as the doors close.
They stand in the front, with their backs to everyone.
Noticing them, Diana's eyes widen.
She glances between Sandy and the thugs.
Sandy looks up as Marisol turns away.
Stepping forward, he eyes Julian up and down.
They exit into the lobby.
Julian glances back.
Sandy and Diana share a concerned look on their way out as the thugs had turn out in a different hall way.
Now, in his prison cell, Paolo grabs his phone.
The skiptracer shoots Julian in the leg.
Marisol holds her hands up.
He shoots her in the foot.
Now, the two thugs lie in a car's trunk.
Outside, an officer escorts Diana around a squad car.
Sandy glances over as they both get into the back seat.
Diana stares ahead, avoiding his gaze.
Nearby, the skiptracer watches from the thugs' silver sedan.
As the squad car leaves, he quickly follows.
Now, they cruise down a construction-filled street with opposite lanes divided by orange traffic cones.
Sandy stares straight ahead in the back seat.
With a determined glare, the skiptracer follows close behind.
Diana glances over at Sandy, then leans toward the grated divider separating them from the officers.
She uncuffs a hand.
Suddenly, she bangs her cuffed wrist against the back windshield.
She kicks out the glass.
The skiptracer swerves,and then spins a 180, sliding into the squad car's side.
Another car rear-ends them.
They crawl out.
The skiptracer aims.
The skiptracer drives forward, knocking several cars out of the way.
He barrels through traffic dividers, into the opposite lane.
They see a highway beneath them.
The skiptracer steers through oncoming traffic.
Following Diana, Sandy trips off the curb and lands in a closed-off lane.
The skiptracer crashes through the dividers, heading straight for him.
Diana helps Sandy up and pushes him aside as the car accelerates.
Diana rolls up the windshield and falls to the pavement.
Pushing the airbag away, the skiptracer sees a squad car speeding straight at him.
As he turns, a car T-bones him.
Sandy kneels over Diana.
Sandy's face tenses.
She startles awake.
She punches him in the throat.
Sandy flails backward.
Sitting up, Diana sees a squad car speed by, then glances behind them.
Squad cars surround the skiptracer.
An officer hops out with his pistol drawn.
The skiptracer sits back, dazed.
They arrest him as Sandy and Diana scurry away unseen.
They exit the overpass through a construction gate and down a staircase.
Now, in a parking lot, Sandy and Diana stagger toward the Chevy Caprice.
He looks off as she enters the car.
Now, with St. Louis behind them, Sandy cruises along with a joyful grin as Diana sleeps.
Later, the sun rises in a pale orange sky.
In broad daylight, Sandy drives through rural farmland.
He checks the fuel gauge on a country highway.
Sandy keeps his tired eyes on the road.
Glancing over, he startles as Diana sleeps with her glazed eyes wide open.
Sandy gently closes her eyelids and her head falls into his lap.
He yanks her up by the hair and Diana's mouth hangs open.
Our view quickly rises into the sky, following the sun through a full day.
At sunset, they cruise toward the Denver skyline.
At night, Sandy parks the beat-up car outside his apartment and enters with Diana.
His daughters run into his arms.
Sandy's brow rises at his approaching wife.
They share a long, loving kiss as Diana enters, her sheepish eyes averted to the floor.
She connects eyes with Trish.
The young girls extend their hands.
Diana shifts her gaze to Sandy, who flashes a grin.
Now, the Pattersons eat dinner with Diana.
Trish looks at her husband, who glances at their guest and takes a bite.
Sitting across from Diana, Sandy's daughters stare warily at her.
Diana smears potatoes on her forehead.
Jessie plops food onto her forehead with a fork.
Later, Trish dries dishes in the kitchen.
Diana timidly walks in and puts her hand on the counter.
She removes it and straightens.
Diana shifts her weight and steps closer.
She outlines her groin and chest.
Trish awkwardly blinks at her.
Diana starts to go, then turns back.
She gazes earnestly at Diana.
The redhead leaves the kitchen.
Watching her go, Trish clutches a plate and drying cloth.
Her gaze wanders to the floor.
Now, in bed, Sandy lies on his side.
He rolls to his right and sidles up next to his wife, who lightly touches his shoulder.
Trish lies on her back and gazes up at the ceiling.
She turns to her husband.
She rises on her side and tenderly grabs Sandy's shoulder.
She leans in and kisses his head.
Sandy smiles briefly.
The couple stares thoughtfully into the darkness.
She tilts her head and glances at Sandy, and kisses the back of his neck.
Rubbing his shoulder, she lies down behind him.
Now, Sandy walks into the living room, and sees his two young daughters sleeping on the couch.
Diana sleeps on the floor beside the girls and holds Frannie's hand.
The young father stands over the trio and flips off a table lamp.
As he slowly leaves, our view moves down to Diana and Frannie's joined hands.
Later, Sandy awakens and looks at the clock.
He buries his face in his pillow.
He opens his bedroom door and goes down the hall.
He discovers Frannie and Jessie decked out in Diana-style gaudy makeup.
He looks around the corner, then back to his girls.
Jessie gets up and retrieves a note.
She hands him a folded slip of pink paper.
Sandy unfolds the note.
He walks past men and women in suits, and nods curtly as he passes the receptionist desk.
Giving someone else a weak wave, Sandy heads to his office and pauses and looks at his name placard on the glass door.
He passes it and joins a conference-room meeting already in progress.
Daniel looks up.
Daniel points behind Sandy.
He turns and sees Diana through the walls of an all-glass office.
Sandy takes a step and peers intently at the conversation.
Diana sits across from the detective, while two officers stand and watch her.
Sandy goes over and opens the door.
Sandy nods stiffly.
The cops leave.
Sandy shoots Diana a wide-eyed stare.
Diana leaves in handcuffs and her flowing black dress.
The police escort her away, and Sandy comes out of the office.
He watches the repentant woman as she turns and gives a teary smile.
An officer holds her arm and leads her off.
Sandy goes to Daniel.
Daniel walks off.
Sandy stands alone.
Fade to black.
Now, Trish carries a cake across the yard to a table where Sandy cradles their newborn.
He checks his watch.
Now, in a prison's visiting yard.
She holds up an exam with an A-plus grade.
She gives Franny a big hug, then reaches out for Jessie.
Diana pulls a document out of a large, yellow envelope and inspects it.
She pats the birth certificate, then slides it over to Sandy.
Diana rises from the picnic table and passes behind him.
She abruptly turns and embraces him.
He looks at her and smiles.
Sandy gathers up the envelope and stands, glancing at the paperwork in his hands.
He looks up at Diana as she heads for a pair of prison guards standing by a chain-link fence.
She turns to Sandy.
He beams.
Diana approaches the gate.
She turns around again to wave.
A guard grabs her shoulder.
She throat-punches the guard.
A second officer promptly tases her, sending her sprawling.
Diana jolts up to her hands and knees and looks around.
Sandy shakes his head and leaves.
Dark clouds cover half of the bright moon.
A figure hurtles dying towards the ground.
Long, bony fingers caress the street as the black-tied figure rises to its feet.
The figure is a slight man in his 30's, blood streaks the right side of his face.
He has blond cropped hair and a thick color.
He stares at lights in the sky which go out.
Rain falls.
He throws himself against the wall and huddles beside it.
He holds out a broad-bladed dagger and points it in the direction of the dog which barks from behind the wire fence.
The man rips open his black top, revealing a thin, toned body with tattoos and blood in line with the streak on his face.
He walks towards the dog in its pound, raises the dagger above his head and brings it down with great force.
Bright light shines on him and a blue light ring falls over his and opens the collar around his neck.
It falls to the ground.
Rain washes blood across the ground and into a drain.
Inside the building, a man in a suit and carrying a torch walks along between stacking shelf, some covered with cellophane.
Under a skylight, he steps on a toy.
He bends down and picks it up.
The man in the black coat jumps through the skylight onto him.
Knocking him and his torch to the floor.
The man from the sky goes to a grubby men's room.
Removes his coat and opens a first aid box.
He uses a thread and a bent needle to stitch a nasty wound on his back.
Flesh has been torn away at shoulder level.
He watches his reflection in a mirror as he sows.
His bloody hand grasps the sinks, as his blood drips on the floor.
Now dressed, he marches to a door and removes a chain.
He switches on lights in an armory.
Dressed in black, shirt, trousers and light coat.
He picks up two assault rifles with grenade launchers.
Then a selection of assault and sniper rifles.
He walks out of the armory with two bags in his hands.
He reaches a door with a metal bar across it.
Two cops, Burton and Estevez, drive along a downtown street.
The burlier of the two, Burton, glances out as they pass people on the sidewalk.
Burton holds up his fingers in the shape of a gun.
A door explodes just in front of them.
And a man is hurled into the air.
A hole in the shape of a cross has been made in the building.
And they watch, as the man from the sky, steps into the flaming surround.
Burton gets out and draws his gun.
The man talks to Estevez.
He drops them.
He stares at the cops and complies.
Estevez steps up to cuff him, and is spun around as a shield.
Burton convulses.
Burton dances on the spot as they shake.
Light flicker.
His eyes are staring, and his face tight.
Burton shoots Estevez.
Michael leaps to the ground, moves over and shoots Burton with two hand guns.
Michael places his two guns in the bags and takes them to the police car.
He drives off in it.
Burton's body lies on the sidewalk.
The squad car identified by the number on it's roof drives past buildings.
Lights shutting off in them, as he passes.
A guy in his late wakes and sits up with a start.
He looks around and switches on a light.
He's on a chair.
A small television is to his left.
He comes out of a two door trailer and shuts the door.
In the early morning light he walks away from the big gray trailer.
Passing under two strings of light bulbs.
His hands as stuffed in his jacket pockets.
The green neon lights of the sign illuminate his features.
Jeep turns back to the trailer.
She is pregnant.
They sit on the swings facing in opposite directions.
Charlie's belly is very swollen.
Jeep wears a hang dog expression.
He nods.
She stares at him out of the corner of her eyes.
Then looks away.
She rises from the swing.
Walks behind him, resting her hand momentarily on his shoulder.
Before continuing on her way back to the trailer.
He remains on the swing and doesn't move.
She goes back inside through the second door.
Jeep's father, Bob, keeps thumping the TV set inside the Paradise Falls diner and plays with a lighter.
His chef is a tall, bald black guy, who wears a crucifix and couple of dog tags around his neck.
He has a hook for a left hand.
A skimpily dressed young woman leans over a juke box.
A woman at a table with a man stares at her and grunts.
The man glances round.
He makes a move.
Bob turns, as does Audrey.
Howard turns to wife Sandra.
A guy in an SUV drives along a deserted freeway, a half smoked cigarette in his mouth.
He wears a brown beanie hat, a scarf around his neck, and a casual jacket.
It's a sunny morning.
He stubs out his cigarette and picks up his cellphone.
He looks at it.
He sees a sign for Paradise Falls, beneath it.
He unfolds a map and lifts it up to study it.
He lowers it and sees the diner up ahead.
He pulls up in the forecourt and sees Charlie standing by a phone box, smoking a cigarette.
He saunters up to her.
She takes another drag on her cigarette.
Charlie grins, reaches in her overall pocket, and takes out a pack.
She holds it out and he takes one.
He points at his map.
Jeep sees them.
Jeep, holding an old wooden cot, stares at them, then walks away.
Charlie puffs on her cigarette.
In the diner, Audrey sits alone.
Sandra squeezes cream into Howard's cupped hand.
He rubs it in.
Charlie leads a tall, black, 30'ish Kyle inside.
Audrey looks up with interest.
He glances at the other three diners, then follows Charlie to the counter, all eyes on him.
The scruffy, unshaven Bob tilts his head to one side.
In the garage, Jeep is cleaning the cot.
Bob strides over and sees the old cot on a bench.
Bob stares at his son.
They're outside.
Jeep glares at his father, who shakes his head.
Jeep looks down and away from Bob.
He glances at his father, who screws up his eyes.
Jeep lowers his eyes.
Bob pats him affectionately on the cheek.
Jeep watches his father go.
As Bob enters the diner, Howard turns to him.
Bob holds his thumb and forefinger close together.
He sees static on the television screen.
Outside, Jeep's attention is drawn to something down the road.
He steps forward and glances at the horizon.
Anomalous-growing dark cloud fills it.
Inside, Bob steps up on a chair to examine the TV set.
Jeep looks in the opposite direction.
Encroaching black cloud dominates the horizon there.
Others look at the screen.
Kyle proffers money.
Percy switches on a radio.
He tries tuning it in.
Charlie's eyes venture to the TV.
Sandra gets to her feet.
All six of them are still as they stare at the TV, four standing, Audrey and Howard sitting.
Kyle is on the phone in the back.
Kyle removes his hat.
Bob had switched off the television.
In the garage, Jeep is looking at the apparently pristine top of the Beamer's engine block and it's air intake.
He looks at it hopelessly.
An old white Ford Sedan turns off the road and heads towards the petrol pumps.
It passes them and draws to a halt outside the diner.
The driver's door opens.
The wheels and stanchions of a Zimmer frame are plunked on the rocky ground.
An elderly woman with white hair and a pink cardigan emerges from the car.
Walks a little.
Then shuts the door.
Jeep looks curiously around.
The old woman's shadow is cast on the diner door.
She opens the door and shuffles in with the aid of the Zimmer.
Kyle and Percy glance around.
Charlie spots her.
Audrey glances up at the old woman who grins and looks over at Howard and Sandra.
Charlie, who wears a name badge, saunters over.
Sandra smiles through gritted teeth.
The door opens.
Jeep walks in.
He goes to the kitchen.
The steak.
Flies are on the steak.
Charlie's smile fades.
She glares.
Everyone turns to the dear, sweet old lady.
Charlie slams down the bill and goes to the kitchen.
Jeep looks across at the old lady and starts to walk towards her.
Her rare steak is covered with flies.
She cuts into it.
Audrey grins.
Gladys bites a chunk from his neck.
Howard falls to the floor.
Gladys tips her table.
Percy grabs a frying pan and throws it a Gladys, hitting her.
She straightens up a gash in her cheek, her yes dark.
Gladys charges across the diner.
Leaps onto the window blinds and scuttles up them to an inverted V-shaped ceiling, which she scampers over.
Bob fires a pump-action shotgun.
She leaps down in front of him and swats him away.
The shotgun falls to the floor in front of Jeep, who picks it up as Gladys approaches.
Jeep closes his eyes.
Gladys slows to a halt at his feet.
Jeep hasn't fired.
He looks up to see Kyle holding a smoking pistol.
Howard lies in a puddle of blood on the floor, gasping for a breath.
Sandra runs to him.
Her hands are covered in his blood.
Kyle puts the gun in his waistband and runs over to them.
Kyle places a napkin and a his scarf over the wound.
Audrey sits on a bench seat, hugging her knees and shivering.
Blood drips from the ceiling onto Audrey's head.
She sees two stains above her.
Percy and Kyle haul Howard to the SUV, his toes dragging on the ground.
They load him into the back with Sandra and Audrey.
The SUV reverses.
Then it goes back onto the road, heading for the dark cloud in the distance.
Audrey spots the dark cloud on the road.
It looks like smoke spreading upwards.
A fly comes in through a grill.
Others splat into the windscreen.
Flies storm in trough the grill.
They're thousands.
In the men's room at the diner, Jeep thrown up on a cubicle.
Bob stands by a nearby sink.
Bob drinks from a can.
Bob sees Jeep's reflection in the mirror.
Bob pats Jeep's shoulder, then turns when he hears a car.
The others return.
He grabs Percy.
Bob looks up as Percy rushes inside.
A giant storm of flies looms overhead.
The sky above Bob darkens.
He retreats inside.
The gruesome face of old Gladys is uncovered from under a plastic sheet.
Bob and Jeep carry Gladys out.
Kyle is with them.
They watch the approaching police squad car.
Kyle turns to Jeep, then Bob.
The car is coming from the opposite direction from where the swarm of flies came.
It screeches off the road towards the diner.
Charlie sees it from a window.
She runs outside.
The others watch as the car stops.
Jeep spots Charlie.
The door opens.
Michael steps out.
He sees Charlie, clutching her belly, run towards him.
Jeep runs over beside her.
Charlie slows down as Michael stares at her.
Michael opens his mouth, keeping his teeth clenched.
Bob keeps the pump-action aimed at him.
He sees the body.
Michael tilts his head to one side.
Michael snatches the pump-action.
Kyle points his pistol.
The shotgun is at Bob's forehead.
Bob closes his eyes tightly.
Percy comes outside.
Bob screws up his face.
Michael keeps the shotgun in place.
Jeep and Charlie watch transfixed.
Michael takes his left hand off the barrel, his right holding the shotgun in position.
He turns and looks away.
Bob opens his eyes.
Michael hands him the gun.
Michael goes to the boot of the squad car, opens it, and takes out assault rifles.
He hands them to Kyle, Bob, and Jeep.
Michael rushes past Jeep and Bob and heads straight for Charlie.
He hands her a pistol.
Charlie turns and watches him stride towards the diner.
Audrey and Sandra come out.
The wind rises, blowing dust before it.
Bob stares at the length of the road before moving.
Jeep keeps his eyes on the road, then runs to the diner.
Inside, they barricade the doors.
Jeeps pushes the office desk against the back door.
Kyle looks out through slathered blinds.
Behind him, Michael picks up an assault rifle and stands beside Jeep, who glances nervously at him.
The lights go out.
A torchlight beam illuminates the diner.
Bob shines one at Michael.
Michael looks up at the ceiling.
Bob leads the way up through a skylight.
He clambers up the roof to a metal ladder and steps onto a metal walkway in front of the diner's unlit neon sign.
Percy, Kyle, and Michael are with him.
They see a light in the distance.
It is an ice cream van.
Kyle and Bob turn to Percy.
He steadies the rifle with his claw-like metallic hand.
As the van approaches, down in the diner, Audrey peeps out through the blinds.
Jeep is also in the diner with a big torch.
The van pulls into the forecourt.
The Frosty Treats van pulls up.
Audrey joins her mom on the floor, beside Howard.
Charlie ducks down behind the counter, the pistol Michael gave her in her hand.
Jeep is close by.
The others on the roof watch as the driver gets out.
Two long, bony hands cling on to the door frame as the ice cream man with a blue forage cap emerges.
He's tall and thin with a gaunt face.
He wears a light shirt and dark floppy bow tie, with matching light trousers.
He steps to the front of the van, his headlights still on.
He moves forward.
Bob watches as the ice cream man sniffs the air.
The man opens his mouth.
His arms extend from his sleeves.
He bends over and bounds like a stick insect.
As he leaps in the air, Michael shoots him.
As the man arrives on the ground, Michael continues shooting until the twitching stops.
Inside the diner, the women and Jeep look anxious.
Up on the roof.
They turn their heads right to look along the road and see lights.
Two columns of cars bear down on them.
The cars drive straight as if on tracks.
Inside, their drivers seemed to be convulsing.
Their heads shaking violently, they drive towards the diner.
As bullets rip into the lead cars, they spin on the road.
Shells cascade along the feet of the shooters.
One car smashes into a static one.
The car rolls over in flames.
The bursts of rapid fire illuminate the faces on the roof.
Michael runs along the walkway and sees lights coming from the other direction.
The new convoy is led by a villain car, then a truck.
Michael launches a grenade.
e takes out The lead vehicle then opens fire on the truck, which spills some of its load of pipes and slams into other cars.
The surviving vehicles stop, and their doors open.
Drivers and passengers emerge from them and walk sedately towards the diner.
From the roof, the guys look down on the approaching hoard of impassive faces.
Kyle sees a young girl in a white party dress holding a balloon.
There are men, women, and children.
She seems to be looking straight up at him.
Michael opens fire.
People go down.
Shells fall from the rifles.
In the diner, Jeep anxiously moves the torch around.
His father guns down several of the approaching people.
Michael moves away from the other three.
Sandra and Audrey are beside Howard, who is on the floor.
Charlie's eyes are fixed on the window above the desk in the office.
Someone bursts through.
They can't see the intruder.
Charlie rises from behind the counter.
Howard yells.
He's being dragged by the legs by the intruder, who hauls him towards the shattered window.
The woman intruder, her young face contorted, leaps out of the window, still pulling Howard.
The others try to keep hold of him.
Her arm is grabbed.
As the stranger cuts Charlie, a knife cuts through his wrist, severing his hand.
Michael is inside.
Howard is pulled out.
Assault rifle in each hand, Michael shoots out of the window.
On the roof, Kyle watches as the intruders slope off.
They trudge away from the diner.
Michael clutches on to Sandra, who sinks to her knees.
Jeep helps Charlie up.
She looks apprehensive as Michael approaches.
Kyle leads in the others from the roof.
Audrey tries to console her mother.
Bob grimly strides forward.
Michael stares at the others.
He turns to Charlie.
Her smile fades when she sees his somber face and steadfast gaze.
Charlie closes her eyes.
He loads an assault rifle, turns, and walks away from them.
Outside, intermittent bright flashes illuminate the horizon.
Kyle is on the roof with Percy.
Kyle glances down at Percy, who is crouched low, leaning against a ledge.
Percy looks around at Kyle.
Percy turns away and leans a rifle over his arm.
Kyle looks awkward.
Percy watches as Kyle places the gun on the ledge.
Kyle shakes his head.
Percy blinks and glances down.
Tears fall from his eyes.
Kyle raises his head, then turns to stare at Percy beside him.
Downstairs, Bob turned on the grill, then lights a cigarette with his lighter.
He takes a deep drag, then breathes it out.
He picks up a can and drinks from it.
He looks across the room at Sandra, whose hair, which had been pulled tight, is now loose.
He sets a beer down in front of her.
Having wiped the top of the can, she gazes at it, then drinks.
She sets it down on the table.
Sandra buries her head in her hands.
In the storeroom, Jeep looks at Michael curiously.
Jeep takes a claw hammer off a hook.
Michael hangs his head.
He walks over to Jeep.
Jeep stares frowning at Michael, who wears a benign expression.
Michael leaves a thoughtful-looking Jeep.
Bob stands on the roof, leaning against the wall.
He drinks beer from a can and puffs on a cigarette.
Wind whips through his hair.
The sky is filled with dense, gray clouds.
He flinches at the sound and looks out at a bank of gray mist.
Michael stands on the roof, looking pensive.
Michael stands on a roof, silhouetted against bright sunlight.
He has wings.
He's with an elder angel, Gabriel.
An army of angels flies overhead.
Michael slowly steps across the roof of the diner.
The two children swings are blown back and forth by the wind.
The strings of light bulbs shake.
He drops his beer can.
As gray mist rolls in, Bob is sitting by the wall dozing.
Sandra is lying on the floor next to Audrey.
She wakes and looks around anxiously.
She sits up.
Hearing the voice, she looks around.
She slowly walks through the diner with her arms held stiffly away from her sides.
She goes behind the counter.
Sandra goes into a gloomy corridor.
She stops and looks at a door which is slightly ajar.
She steps towards the door which has light peeping through the gap.
Sandra reaches out, pushes the door wide open, and enters the office.
Shafts of bright sunlight stream through the small window above the desk.
Sandra's face is bathed in the golden light.
Sandra moves a chair to the wall, stands on it, and looks out of a window.
Outside, Howard is bound to an inverted cross.
Enormous blisters bubble on his skin.
The blisters on Howard's exposed arms and chest throb.
As Sandra climbs down off the chair, Kyle runs in and grabs her around the waist.
Sandra elbows Kyle aside.
Audrey wakes up and runs to the office.
Sandra is heaving the desk away from the door.
She pushes Audrey away.
Sandra runs outside.
Percy grabs her.
Howard's blisters throb and pulsate.
Percy grabs Sandra around the waist and turns her away.
Howard's stomach explodes in a shower of steaming liquid.
Percy heaves Sandra into the office.
Sandra flops on the floor.
Charlie stares at Percy, leaning in the doorway.
Percy stares blankly into space.
He falls flat on his face.
His back has been burnt off.
Steam wafts around his exposed organs.
In the storeroom, Percy lies under a white sheet.
Bob leans on the covered corpse and wears a wretched expression.
Jeep stands in the doorway.
Bob's face twitches.
In the diner, Sandra sits bound to a chair with her wrists tied behind her back.
Bright shafts of light stream through gaps between planks nailed up against the window.
Kneeling in front of Sandra, Audrey takes a pill from a pot.
Her face wet with tears, Sandra nods.
Audrey pops the pill in her mouth and offers her a drink through a straw.
Audrey smiles.
Sandra narrows her eyes and fixes her with a cold, bitter stare.
Kyle walks in.
Shaken, Audrey gets up and follows Kyle.
Charlie sits looking pensive as Audrey tries to tune the radio, turning the dial and moving the aerial around.
Michael shakes his head.
Charlie looks down at her belly.
Standing in the bathroom, Charlie lights a cigarette and has a puff.
By the light of a lantern and a couple of candles, she regards her pretty face in the mirror for a moment.
Her expression is fraught.
She gently runs her thumb over her pregnant belly, then throws down the cigarette sharply.
She stamps on the cigarette, grabs her jacket, and walks out.
She sits alone in the kitchen with her feet up.
She looks up and smiles at Jeep.
She takes her feet off the chair.
He sits.
She looks down.
Jeep frowns
Jeep's expression hardens.
He walks away.
Charlie's face crumples and she sobs.
Wisps of cloud float past the moon.
On the roof, Kyle is with Audrey, who's aiming an assault rifle.
She puts the gun down.
Kyle looks away thoughtfully.
Audrey shakes her head.
She grins broadly.
Audrey looks down thoughtfully.
Inside, more lights come on.
The jukebox whirs into action.
On the roof, Kyle and Audrey look out into the darkness.
A vehicle speeds along the freeway.
Bob walks out from the kitchen.
Bob, Jeep, and Charlie go to the window and peer out through the blinds.
Audrey and Kyle watch the vehicle, a van, drive between the jumble of cars in front of the diner.
Kyle gives Audrey a dark look.
Kyle aims his assault rifle and Audrey aims her pistol at the van as it stops by the pumps.
A man gets out of the van and gestures to the occupants.
A child looks out of the window at the man as he grabs a gas nozzle.
With his hands pressed against the window, the little boy looks up at Kyle and Audrey.
Audrey runs to the side of the roof and looks out.
Kyle looks over.
Several cars drive out of the darkness towards the diner.
Kyle stares down at the man by the van.
The boy bashes on the window.
The vehicles close in.
The man drops the gas nozzle and runs to the driver's side.
A car side sweeps him, sending him flying.
The car stops.
A punky-looking guy gets out.
A van stops and a rabble spills out.
They surround the van, open it, and grab the boy.
Kyle shoots the rabble.
The rabble surround the boy, who is crouched on the ground.
Kyle swings over the wall and jumps down from the front of the diner.
He runs at the rabble, gun blazing.
Bob starts to wrench the planks away from the windows.
Bob turns to see Michael aiming his gun at him.
Kyle barges through and picks up the boy.
The rabble closes in.
Kyle picks off a few of them.
Clutching the boy close to him, Kyle stares out at the possessed.
The boy looks at Kyle.
His eyes are black.
He bites Kyle in the neck.
Kyle collapses.
Bob kicks a chair over.
Audrey comes down from the roof.
Audrey runs at the possessed gun blazing.
She aims at the boy and pulls the trigger.
She's out of ammo.
He stares at her.
There's blood around his mouth.
Audrey gets in the van and shuts the door.
The possessed clamber on the outside.
Charlie turns to Michael.
Michael just stares at her.
The possessed clamber and crawl over the van.
They scratch the windscreen with their fingernails.
Charlie picks up a machine pistol.
Michael stops her.
Michael takes the machine pistol and picks up an assault rifle.
Bob and Jeep pulls the planks away from the door and open it.
Michael walks out, guns blazing.
Possessed drop dead.
A couple run at Michael.
He batters them away.
He pulls out two pistols and shoots some more.
He gives another one a kick, shoots him, and lays into a couple more by the van.
Michael takes a nozzle from a fuel pump, sprays gas over the back of the van, and lights it.
The possessed flee as the van is engulfed in flames.
Inside, Audrey cowers fearfully.
She moves over to the passenger seat.
Michael smashes the driver's window.
He grabs her hand, yanks her out.
They run off.
The van blows up.
They're thrown into the diner.
Charlie fills a jug with water and turns to see the boy.
She drops the jug.
He slashes the front of her shirt with a big kitchen knife.
Charlie recoils and holds up a metal tray.
The boy stabs at Charlie.
The knife sticks in the tray.
His hands slide down the blade.
The knife drops to the floor.
The boy stares at his bloody hands.
Charlie lowers the tray and kicks him over.
Michael clambers in front of Charlie and aims his gun.
The boy's disappeared.
The lights go out, plunging the place into darkness.
Michael runs over to where the boy was.
Bob and Jeep come over, shining a torch on the ground.
There's a trail of blood.
Jeep aims his torch beam up and follows a trail of bloody hand prints across the ceiling.
The trail stops dead.
The boy appears behind Bob and tries to throttle him.
Michael grabs the boy and hurls him away.
Jeep shoots him.
Charlie bends forward, grimacing.
Michael stares at him.
Michael holds Charlie's hands
Audrey at them both.
Bob steps out onto the roof to join Jeep.
Michael keeps holding Charlie.
Her mouth gapes.
The building shakes.
Up on the roof, Bob and Jeep stare out into the darkness.
Bright light flashes all around, illuminating hundreds of possessed standing motionless, staring at the diner.
Charlie's mouth gapes.
Audrey gently lifts the baby.
Smiling incredulously, Audrey wraps the bloody child in a towel and offers it to Charlie.
A tear rolls down Charlie's cheek.
Charlie faces away from the child.
Audrey carries the baby over to Sandra, who stares at it, frowning.
Smiling, Sandra nods.
Behind her back, Sandra twists her hands within the ropes bound around them.
Audrey and Michael.
He shakes his head.
Sitting behind Charlie, Michael leans to her with a sincere expression.
He stands, grasps her shoulder for a moment, and walks away.
Charlie's brow is anxiously wrinkled.
Mist wafts over the hands of the hoards of possessed standing outside.
They slowly rock from side to side.
A full moon glows between dark clouds.
Something hangs overhead, looking down at the diner.
Bob and Jeep walk into the diner.
Charlie stands staring at Michael, who slowly steps towards her.
Sandra grabs the baby.
Michael aims the gun.
Something flies down towards the diner.
Standing beside Charlie, Audrey shakes her head.
Outside, light washes over the possessed.
Intense white light shines through the entrance.
The door blasts open.
Michael shoots Sandra in the head.
She jerks backwards, dropping the baby.
Jeep dives and catches it.
Gabriel steps out of the bright light, a tall, muscular man with enormous black wings.
Gabriel spread his wings and swings a mace down to the baby.
Holding him, Jeep rolls out of the way.
The mace slashes a hole in the floor.
Bob shoots at Gabriel as Jeep gives the baby to Charlie.
Gabriel spins, deflecting the bullets with his wings wrapped around him.
He slices across Bob's chest.
Bob drops his gun and feels his bloody chest.
Gabriel swipes him across the face, throwing him onto a cooker.
Michael gives Jeep some keys.
Jeep, Charlie, and Audrey rush to a door and open it.
The possessed stand with their heads bowed, a walkway between them.
Jeep steps out holding a pistol.
Charlie follows holding the baby.
Audrey follows them.
Jeep leads the way with his gun held out in front.
The possessed stand motionless.
Mist floats above their bowed heads.
In the diner, Gabriel stands facing Michael, who shakes his head slightly.
The possessed step aside as Jeep, Charlie, and Audrey walk between them.
They reach a figure with a bag over its head, standing in front of the police car.
In the diner, Gabriel studies Michael.
The figure with the bag over its head wheezes and whacks the hood of the police car with a stick.
Jeep, Charlie, and Audrey get in the police car.
Michael walks up to Gabriel.
Jeep drives Audrey, Charlie, and the baby away.
Michael steps right up to Gabriel, who studies him.
Jeep keeps his eye on the wing mirror as he drives away.
Michael clasps his hand against Gabriel's cheek.
And looks him to his face.
Gabriel's eye moisten, and he looks down.
His lips move as if grasping for words.
He clutches Michael's hand and looks deep into his eyes.
Gabriel pushes Michael away.
Michael readies his assault rifle.
Blades poke out of Gabriel's mace.
Gabriel spreads his wings, and his chest.
He lunges towards Michael, who shoots and leaps out of the way.
They deflect off Gabriel's steel breastplate.
Gabriel rises into the air and swings his mace, crashing it into furniture.
Michael wallops.
Gabriel leaps over his wing and gets swept with a machine pistol.
Gabriel shoves the spike in the middle of his mace into the barrel of the gun.
Michael shots and is blown back against the wall.
Gabriel attacks.
Gabriel slams the mace against the wall.
Michael clutches the shaft of the mace.
Gabriel sets the spiked end spinning.
He pushes it towards Michael's face.
Michael shoves it away.
And Gabriel punches him.
Michael punches Gabriel, grabs the overhead TV, and hurls it at Gabriel.
Gabriel punches Michael to the floor.
Gabriel grabs Michael by the throat, lifts him up, and punches him.
Michael wallops him back and twists his arm.
He flings Gabriel over and kicks him in the face.
Gabriel forces Michael over a worktop and pins him down.
He wields a hammer.
Michael dodges the blow.
Gabriel spins and slashes Michael across the chest.
Michael looks down at his ripped shirt.
Gabriel punches him in face.
Gabriel lunges with the mace, but Michael blocks the blow.
The mace flies out of Gabriel's hands.
Michael punches and kicks Gabriel.
He gets on Gabriel's back, with his arms around his neck.
Gabriel flies upwards and batters Michael against the ceiling.
Michael keeps his arms held tight around Gabriel's neck.
Michael holds on tight.
Gabriel reaches down and picks up the mace.
Gabriel holds the mace to his side and twists it.
A blade shoots out, stabbing Michael behind him.
Michael flops back onto the floor, his mouth wide open.
Michael lies with his arms outstretched, eyes wide open, twitching slightly, a bloody wound in his chest.
Gabriel turns and stares down at Michael.
Tears glisten in Gabriel's eyes.
Michael's bloody lips twitch.
His eyes close as he expires.
A golden light spreads over him.
A tear runs down Gabriel's cheek as he watches.
The bright light engulfs Michael, then vanishes taking him with it.
Gabriel turns to go.
As Jeep drives through the light, Charlie turns and looks at him.
Black lines and symbols spread up his arm.
Gabriel slowly steps through the wrecked diner holding his mace.
He goes behind the counter where Bob is laying amongst the wreckage.
Bob holds his lighter out to a gas tap at the base of an oven.
He looks up at Gabriel.
He sparks up a flame, igniting the gas.
Gabriel takes flight as flames engulf the diner and the possessed outside.
Jeep drives along a desert highway.
Charlie sits on the passenger seat, cradling her baby and smiling down at him.
Jeep frowns at Charlie.
Then they both look ahead.
They pass a sign.
The back window shatters as Gabriel lands on the roof.
He rips the light offs and punches the roof with his fists.
Jeep shoots up at it.
He falls.
Gabriel clings onto the back.
Jeep shoots at Gabriel, and the car swerves.
Gabriel knocks over his hand and the flare goes off in the car.
Gabriel tries to hold himself in the back window.
Gabriel grabs Audrey's arm and punches her.
Gabriel grabs Jeep's gun arm.
Jeep tries to fight him off.
Charlie keeps hold of her baby.
Gabriel clamps his hand over Jeep's eyes.
Jeep puts his foot down.
The car swerves all over the road.
Audrey grabs Gabriel around the throat.
The speedo creeps past The speedo hits Jeep slams on the breaks.
Gabriel hurtles out of the front window and tumbles out on the road.
The car leaves the road, hits a hump, and rolls into a ditch, landing on its roof.
Jeep is upside down in his seat with his head pressed against the roof.
Charlie manages to get out.
Jeep struggles to get out of the car.
He stands up next to Charlie.
Charlie shakes her head and supports him.
Jeep and Charlie, who holds the baby, climb up a steep hill.
As they progress up the hill and the gradient increases, they struggle for hand holds.
Jeeps looks up in the sky.
Gabriel swoops down out of the light sky and lands just in front of Jeep.
He knocks him cold with a single punch.
Charlie tries to run, but finds herself on the edge of a cliff top.
Gabriel turns to her.
He holds his hand out.
She looks at the baby and shakes her head.
He eyes her steadily.
Jeep leaps on his back.
They fall over the cliff.
They land on the ground below.
Gabriel tosses Jeep aside and draws a knife as he advances on him.
Jeep stares up at Gabriel who towers over him with the knife ready.
As Gabriel raises the knife to strike, Michael descends from the heavens in a dazzling ray of light.
Gabriel looks down.
Then his face contorts in anger.
He lunges at Michael with the knife.
Michael hacks him with his sword.
Gabriel drops the knife and falls to his knees as gouts of blood drip off Michael's sword.
Jeep sits up as Michael steps over to Gabriel and places the tip of his sword on Gabriel's chin.
Michael stares at Gabriel but doesn't move.
Michael shakes his head.
He lowers the sword and steps away.
Gabriel gets to his feet.
Gabriel looks down.
Gabriel spreads his wings and takes off.
Michael turns to Jeep.
Jeeps gets up.
Jeep watches as Michael spreads his wings and takes off.
He flies high up into the sky.
Up on the cliff top, Charlie cuddles her baby.
She looks down and sees Jeep climbing up onto the cliff top as the early morning light spreads across the sky.
They walk out onto a rocky promontory together and look down on a small town in the valley far below.
The sun rises higher in the sky, illuminating the town.
Jeep leads the way back down the mountain.
He helps Charlie down as she carries the baby.
At the wheel of an SUV, the now heavily tattooed Jeep looks at the road ahead.
He glances over at Charlie and the baby in the passenger seat.
The baby looks back at him.
Jeep smiles.
Charlie looks over at him, and the smile becomes a grin.
The SUV make its way along the deserted road.
The back of the SUV is crammed full of guns.
It motors on towards the horizon.
A French tricolor is under water.
A wooden galleon lists heavily to its starboard side, as it's being hauled in rough seas into a dry dock.
Lines of men standing in the dry dock tug on heavy ropes attached to the ship.
The sea crashing into the dry dock means the men in the center are waist-high in water.
There are others at higher levels in the dock.
The men are scruffy, unshaven, and are all prisoners.
They grunt as they pull in unison, as the rope moves through their rough, chained hands.
Standing way above them on the quay side is a grave-looking man in a blue uniform, Javert.
He stares intently at one prisoner in particular, who avoids his gaze.
The ship's in the dock.
The prisoners file out.
Javert stops one.
He's stopped the prisoner he was watching so closely.
The tall prisoner, who has a beard, closely-cropped hair and a stoop, turns back from the broken flagpole on the ground.
A second prisoner is stopped from following him.
The flagpole is long and thick.
The prisoner heaves.
He squats and raises one end onto his shoulder.
He then struggles to his feet.
Grimacing, he lumbers forward as Javert watches, coldly.
The flag, still attached to the pole, is dragged through the water.
The prisoner reaches Javert and drops the pole.
Javert's eyes are fixed on Valjean, who staggers away from the dry dock.
On a mountain top, he uses a stout staff as he plods across rocky terrain towards a cross on the summit.
He passes the cross and looks ahead as the sun begins to rise.
He walks up a snow-covered hillside, a lonely figure silhouetted against the skyline.
A satchel over his shoulder, he steps onto a ledge and glances at the mountains ahead.
Seeing men at work, he stops by a farmer.
The farmer reads them, as Valjean removes his woolen hat.
As Valjean leaves, a fleshy-jowled town hall officer turns to a guard.
On the street, children throw stones at Valjean.
He warms his hands at a fire in an inn.
Valjean is attacked outside.
He's punched and kicked.
He wanders through a churchyard and lies down by the church.
Something startles him.
A cleric, a bishop, holds a lamp.
Valjean frowns.
Valjean crouches by a blazing fire.
Seated at a table, he shovels down food.
Valjean stops eating for a moment to stare at the bishop and the two women standing by the table.
Now on his feet, he watches as one of the women places silverware in a cupboard.
Lying in a bed, he stares up at an ornate ceiling.
Then goes to the cupboard.
As bishop sleeps, Valjean stuffs silverware into his satchel.
He drops a tray.
He picks it up as he runs from the church.
Valjean is brought back to the church.
The bishop looks up.
He brings over two candlesticks and hands them to Valjean.
The bishop places his hand on Valjean's head.
A tomb with carvings of two Christified figures.
Beside it, Valjean kneels at the altar.
His papers in his hand.
Blood stains his temple where he was hit.
Having walked away From the altar, he returns and sinks to his knees.
Valjean strides out of the church ripping his papers to shreds as he goes to the far corner of the church yard.
He throws the pieces into the air.
The church in the walled village sits on the top of a hill.
One piece of paper flies high in the air towards the sun.
Javert in uniform rides in the rain ahead of four other uniformed horsemen.
They enter the city.
In a dark cobbled slum, a woman takes a wrapped body of a child from a weeping mother.
In a factory.
A worker snatches a note.
Fantine tries to retrieve the note.
Valjean is clean-shaven.
His hair is dark and neatly trimmed.
Smartly dressed, he looks every inch a gentleman.
He glances up to an office and sees Javert gazing down at the factory floor.
Unnerved, Valjean walks away from the women.
The foreman throws Fantine out onto the street.
Foreman Flings coins at her.
Valjean in a courtyard sees the other uniformed horseman who accompanies Javert.
Inside, Javert paces in the office.
Valjean slowly makes his way up the stairs.
The two men bow.
Javert removes his hat and hands a paper to Valjean.
He hands Javert a rosary.
Javert lowers his gaze.
They rush out onto the coupled street.
A man is trapped under a cart.
Valjean is crouched down beside him.
Javert watches as Valjean places his shoulder under the shaft.
As he did with the flagpole, Valjean grimaces as he gets to his feet.
He lifts the cart off the trapped man.
Javert's eyes narrow.
Val drops the shaft.
Javert hesitates then bows his head.
Javert turns away.
Fantine walks quickly along the streets.
She passes people standing in the darkness.
She has a shawl wrapped tightly around her.
She stops and stares forlornly.
She passes a man smoking a long pipe and women seated.
She approaches a scruffy man.
Fantine's sleek, long dark hair is cut.
Fantine is held down as a tooth extractor is pushed into her mouth.
A silver-haired man.
Fantine glugs from a small bottle.
Her hand is placed in a man's.
He's wearing a captain's hat.
The captain pushes her down and turns her over.
He slowly raises the hem of her dress.
He lies on top of Fantine, and her lips tremble.
Once finished, he gets off her and saunters away, leaving her on her back.
She lies motionless, her head on a pillow.
Her rouged face is grim and somber.
Fantine looks miserable.
She breathes quickly and swallows.
Her shoulders heave.
She sits up.
Her once clear skin is blotchy and smeared with dirt.
She strokes her short cropped hair.
Her cheeks streaked with tears, Fantine glances behind her.
Her expression is solemn.
Night in the slum.
A punter to a pimp.
A smartly-dressed man takes off his hat and grabs Fantine's dress.
He presses himself on her.
She scratches his face.
He pushes her away as Javert approaches.
Fantine recognizes Valjean and moves away.
She turns her back to him.
She breathes rapidly.
He recoils as she spits in his face.
Javert raises a hand to hold back one of his men.
He picks her up in his arms.
Javert watches them go.
Javert is handed a letter.
Standing outside in the snow, Javert opens the letter and reads it.
He glances up and screws up the letter.
He stands in front of Valjean.
His brow furrowed, Valjean gets to his feet.
Valjean sits back down at his desk.
Javert looks puzzled, then bows curtly and takes his leave.
Valjean watches him go, then leans on his desk.
In church, he kneels at an altar.
He packs money and papers into a case.
He takes a carriage to court.
They stare at him as the court usher escorts him out.
At the hospital a nurse tends to Fantine, who lies on her back.
The nurse dabs her semiconscious patient's forehead with a cloth, then rises and walks out of the room.
Valjean enters.
An image of the nine-year-old blonde girl.
The image has vanished.
Fantine becomes still, and her head lulls to one side.
Valjean closes her lifeless eyes.
He bends forward and kisses her on the temple.
Javert draws his sword.
Having fended Javert off with a baton torn from the wall, Valjean is disarmed.
He but turns, rushes out of the door and dives into the river below.
Javert runs out, but there's no sign of Valjean.
Fantine lies at peace in the hospital bed.
Cosette, young and grubby, is at the inn.
She looks out enviously at children playing in the snow.
Cosette glares.
A pretty little girl.
At the inn, Thenardier hauls himself to his feet and wanders past his subtle clientele.
He gives a staggering bloke a drink.
A silver-haired gent.
He takes the man's reading glasses.
His wife messes a soldier's jacket.
She gazes at the handsome man.
Outside along on a crate by a mule.
In the dark wood, the urchin-like Cosette is carrying a bucket.
Cosette sees Valjean approaching.
She drops the bucket and runs to hide behind a tree.
She watches him fearfully.
Moonlight glows faintly on her young face.
Cosette brightens.
She takes his arm and he carries the bucket full of water through town.
Madame Thenardier walks up and takes the bucket.
Thenardier opens his arms.
Cosette shakes her head at Thenardier.
Thenardier beckons Cosette to him, but she doesn't go.
Madame Thenardier gasps.
Valjean grabs back his hat which Thenardier had taken.
Valjean takes Cosette.
Valjean gives her a doll.
He carries Cosette away.
In the inn.
Javert rides up.
Javert rides away.
Madame Thenardier shoves her husband.
He leans in for a kiss and she pushes him away.
Valjean and Cosette ride through the night in a carriage.
She sleeps with her head resting on his lap.
Valjean strokes Cosette's hair.
The moon shines through trees in the forest.
He looks down fondly at the sleeping child.
Valjean sees Javert.
He stuffs the doll inside his coat.
They get out of the carriage and run off hand in hand by the city wall.
On horseback, Javert sees them.
Javert chases after them as they run along a colonnade.
Valjean climbs over a stone balustrade and lifts Cosette over.
Javert is forced to stop.
He turns back.
Valjean pulls down a rope dangling from the side of a building.
Now on foot, Javert marches along an alleyway.
As Javert searches along dark alleyways, Valjean climbs to the top of a wall.
Cosette watches fearfully as Valjean struggles.
Using the rope, he hauls her up beside him.
They lie still along the top of the wall.
Javert is below them.
He walks off.
Valjean lowers Cosette on the rope on the other side of the wall.
He climbs down himself and carries Cosette.
They peer into a chapel.
The interior is lit by the golden glow of candlelight.
A group of nuns are singing.
Holding Cosette, Valjean turns and sees a man with a spade.
The stout, scruffy balding man throws down his spade and takes off his hat.
They go with Fauchelevant.
High up on a tower, Javert stands facing an ornate cross.
He closes a Bible and walks out to a ledge overlooking Paris.
Beside him is a huge stone eagle.
The tower rises up behind Javert to a spire with a cross on top.
Standing in the corner of the wasteland where the Bastille stood is a giant elephant, a model Napoleon had constructed in preparation for a monument.
It now stands dowdy and decaying.
A scruffy, ratty-haired urchin climbs out of a hole in the elephant's head.
A number of urchins climb out of the elephant and slide down ropes.
They run across the wasteland.
They run through a restaurant stealing food.
Beggars hold out their hands to rich Parisians.
The first urchin leans into a finely dressed couple in a Carriage.
Gavroche runs across the tops of several Carriages and runs off.
He sits on a back of a carriage as it drives through town
Young students join the beggers and the urchins.
Two stand on a platform.
As police arrive on horseback, the students hand out leaflets.
The white head man goes to his Carriage.
His grandson Marius with the others punch their fists in the air.
In his attic room, Marius removes a gold ring from his finger and takes a pistol from a case.
A pretty young woman stands at the door.
The young woman, Eponine, daughter of the Thenardiers', watches him go, thoughtfully.
Marius walked out onto the Street.
He stops to let a carriage cross, and is about to walk on when something catches his eye.
Across the street, Valjean gives money to a beggar.
With him is Cosette, now a beautiful young woman with flowing blonde hair.
She sees Marius watching her, captivated.
She gives the beggar a coin and smiles at Marius as she goes with Valjean.
Eponine has been watching, sadly.
Thenardier is by a hovel.
In the hovel.
He approaches Valjean.
Valjean and Cosette have run off.
Thenardier grovels and dusts Javert's jacket.
Javert looks Thenardier up and down.
Marius comes over.
As she walks off, he grabs her arm.
He smiles.
The students meet in a tavern.
Marius sits, lost in thought.
Enjolras frowns at Marius.
Marius sees Eponine and rushes over to her.
She walks out.
Marius exchanges a glance with Enjolras and follows her.
Cosette is in her bedroom.
Valjean enters the candlelit room.
She sees a scar on his wrist.
Valjean sits.
Cosette looks chastened and walks out of the front door.
Valjean knits his fingers together.
Marius walks down a dark street pursued by Eponine.
In the darkness, Marius stands looking through the railings of Valjean's garden.
Cosette walks towards him past branches laden with blossom.
Cosette gazes at Marius.
Cosette returns to the house.
Marius goes.
Cosette follows Valjean inside.
Marius looks down and sees Cosette's handkerchief.
He picks it up and walks off.
Eponine looks down sadly and disappears into the shadows.
Thenardier walks down the street with one of his cohorts, Babet.
Thenardier slaps Eponine.
Cosette looks desperate.
Valjean puts a candlestick in her bag.
Cosette seals a folded letter with wax.
She runs out to the garden and slots the letter in the railings.
Eponine emerges from the shadows and takes the letter.
It's addressed to Marius.
Eponine opens the letter and reads it.
She looks distressed.
Rain pours down, soaking the cobbled street.
Eponine slowly walks through the darkness, soaked to the skin.
Student protesters and townspeople line a street by the Place de la Bastille.
Gavroche and the urchins are in the elephant.
Soldiers march down the street followed by cavalry.
Behind them is the large black hearse for General Lamarque.
Enjolras Waves a red flag and climbs onto the street.
Marius and the others join him.
Javert is in the crowd.
The cavalry face the protesters, who are grouped around the hearse.
Enjolras and Marius cock pistols.
Soldiers raise their swords and aim their muskets.
A soldier shoots into the crowd.
A woman is hit and collapses.
Cavalry charges.
Men exchange fire with the soldiers.
Enjolras shoots.
One of the students, Courfeyrac, is knocked down.
Javert, who is dressed as a civilian, helps him up.
Marius rides down the street.
A cart is overturned and furniture is thrown from windows to build the barricade.
A cannon is pulled into place.
Students shoot from behind the barricade.
People with guns chase the cavalry down the street.
Protesters run through the streets.
Marius finds a canoodling couple.
A table is taken.
Marius beams with excitement.
Courfeyrac calls out.
Tables and pianos are thrown from windows.
In a cafe, Javert steals a rosette and pins it to his dark jacket.
A couch and a cart the barricade, which blocks the street.
An old woman is kissed.
Her chair is taken.
Javert takes a pistol.
A red flag is thrown to Marius.
Enjolras climbs onto the top of the barricade and waves the flag.
People wave tricolors from their windows.
Javert returns.
They raise their weapons.
Javert throws off the men who are holding him and lays a few punches.
The students overwhelm him.
Enjolras knocks him out with a club.
Enjolras and Marius look around with concern.
They grab their weapons and head to the barricade with the group.
A woman closes her shutters.
The students man the barricade and aim their weapons.
A platoon of soldiers marches up the street to face them.
Light flickers on Enjolras's face.
Sparking gunpowder lights up the street.
Students return fire as soldiers climb up the barricade.
Students shoot through the barricade.
A soldier lies dead on top of it.
Marius grabs a barrel of gunpowder, which flames up.
Gavroche calls out.
Eponine is behind the barricade.
A soldier aims at Marius.
Eponine grabs the musket and is shot.
He has a torch.
He lowers the flaming torch towards the gunpowder.
The officer turns to his men.
They back away.
Breathless, Enjolras takes the torch from Marius.
She sits hunched and clutching her chest where she was shot.
Marius squats down and puts his arm around her.
Drops of rain glisten on her pale face.
Her eyes close.
She reaches out to touch his face.
Marius gazes at Eponine.
Her hand drops to her side.
Young Gavroche watches, a tear rolling down his cheek.
Marius gently kisses Eponine's brow.
Enjolras is also watching, grave-faced.
Enjolras squats down.
Marius helps him pick Eponine up and carry her away.
Marius stares at Cosette's letter with tear-filled eyes.
Holding her letter, he goes over to Gavroche.
Gavroche hurries up a dark stairway to Valjean and Cosette's lodgings.
Gavroche pulls it back, and Valjean offers a coin.
Gavroche stops.
Gavroche goes.
Valjean reads the letter, frowning.
Valjean looks up to the heavens.
Valjean looks around, thoughtfully.
Outside, Valjean steals a dead soldier's jacket, peaked cap and musket.
Disguised as a soldier, he makes his way to the barricade where students keep watch.
He takes off his cap.
He's let in, and guns are aimed at him.
Javert has a noose around his neck.
Valjean looks up.
Valjean shoots a soldier off a rooftop.
Gavroche hands Valjean a pistol.
Beaten and bloody, Javert stares at Valjean slacked faced.
He kneels with his hands tied and the noose around his neck.
Valjean pulls his head up to face him.
They stare into each other's eyes for a moment.
Valjean hauls Javert to his feet and marches him to a dark corner.
Valjean holds up a dagger.
They stand facing each other.
Valjean cuts the ropes binding his wrists.
Javert walks off and turns back.
Valjean aims his pistol.
Valjean walks towards him.
Javert frowns incredulously.
Javert walks off.
Valjean aims the pistol.
He fires into a wall.
Javert stops and looks back then heads off into the dark.
Valjean goes back to join the others.
They sit around regarding him with serious expressions.
Valjean nods.
Enjolras addresses the group.
Marius stops adjusting the barricade and sits with the others.
The wine is passed round.
Frowning, Valjean listens to Marius.
Marius sits clutching Cosette's handkerchief.
Standing nearby, Valjean wears a fraught serious expression.
He leans in a doorway.
Valjean looks at Marius.
Valjean stands beside the sleeping Marius.
Marius stares at Enjolras fearfully.
Everyone looks thoughtful.
Soldier shoots at Gavroch who has climbed through the barricade.
Gavroche is hit.
Gavroche is shot again and flops on his back, dead.
One of the students goes to pick him up and carries him back behind the barricade.
Marius gives him cover with his musket.
An army officer watches.
Behind the barricade, Gavroche is laid on the ground.
Enjolras looks around heavy brown.
As cannons are rolled forward, the students shoot down a few soldiers.
Calls Valjean to Marius.
Cannons are fired splintering the barricade and throwing up clouds of smoke.
The students keep shooting at the soldiers.
Wood splinters and flies through the air as more cannon balls hit the barricade.
Some of the students are injured.
Soldiers advance on the barricade and start to climb up it.
The students keep shooting.
A soldier is slashed with a sword.
A student is bayoneted in the back.
Students hammer on the door of a house but it's locked.
A shutter is pulled closed.
They manage to get into a building.
Marius is shot.
He falls to the ground, his head and arm bleeding.
Valjean goes to him and drags him into the building.
Enjolras hacks the wooden stars away so the soldiers can't follow.
The students climb up to the first floor of the building.
Soldiers burst into the building with guns blazing.
Marius over his shoulder.
Valjean hides behind a door.
Soldier aim their muskets up at the ceiling.
Enjolras and the students are huddled in the room above.
The shots go up through the floor hitting most of the students.
They fall.
Valjean sees a low door and yanks it open.
He climbs down into a sewer and drags Marius in with him.
The soldiers are now upstairs.
They aim their weapons at Enjolras and a fellow student, the only ones left standing.
Enjolras raises the red flag and soldiers open fire.
Enjolras falls back through a window.
He hangs upside down from the ledge still clutching the red flag.
Later on the cobble street below, Javert, now in uniform, walks through a puddle of blood.
The cobbles are strewn with the corpses of soldiers.
Javert walks into the building where the protesters took refuge.
The dead students are laid neatly side by side on all the floor.
His eyes stare out lifelessly from his young, pale face.
Javert squats down at the end of the line beside the corpse of Gavroche.
Javert looks around, moved by the scene.
He removes from his jacket the star shaped Legion of Honor medal with its red ribbon and pins it to Gavroche's coat.
Javert frowns and his eyes dart about wildly.
He gets up and looks around.
He goes to a door, turns the handle, and pushes it open.
In the sewer, Valjean is heaving the unconscious Marius along.
On ground level, Javert hears Valjean straining.
He tries to find the source of the noise.
He goes to another door.
Javert listens and peers down at a round entrance to the sewers.
Valjean slips down a duct tunnel.
He and Marius plummet into the cavernous sewers landing unconscious in dark sludge.
On ground level, Javert frowns.
Thenardier is down in the sewer.
Thenardier takes Marius' gold signet ring and puts it on.
Valjean grabs Thenardier.
Shoved Thenardier down into the sludge.
Valjean gets up and hauls Marius up onto his shoulder.
With the unconscious Marius over his shoulder, Valjean wades up through the knee-deep sewerage.
Dim light filtering through gratings above, washes over the curved brick work.
The sewerage gets deeper.
Valjean is up to his neck.
He holds Marius up next to him.
He shoves a gate open.
He drags Marius through an outflow pipe into the dark night.
He looks up and sees Javert standing there waiting for him.
Covered in sewerage, Valjean holds Marius onto his shoulder and climbs up steps out of the sewer.
Javert aims a pistol at him.
Valjean turns to Javert, who holds the pistol steady.
Valjean considers.
Valjean turns and walks away.
Wearing a troubled frown, Javert stares at the pistol for a moment, then drops it into the sewer.
Javert starts to walk away.
Javert stands at the edge of a steep drop into a massive swirling sluice.
He Paces at the edge of the sheer drop.
Way down below the water surges and churns with white foam and yellow filth.
Javert leans forward and drops into the abyss.
Javert is washed away into the swirling foam.
Marius wakes in a clean bed beneath a ceiling painted with cherubs and angels.
Nearby is a child's rocking horse.
His grandfather sits beside.
Outside the women clean blood from the battle off the troubles.
Marius sits alone in a room, scarred by battle.
His left arm is in a sling.
He stares into space thoughtfully.
Tears fall from his eyes.
He stands and looks around.
Marius' brow is arched and his face wracked with anguish.
Cosette sits watching him.
She reaches out to him.
He limps over to her and takes her hand.
Cosette walks with Valjean and the limping Marius into his grandfather's mansion.
His grandfather watches.
Cosette and Marius kiss.
Marius with Valjean.
Marius takes a seat in the spartan room.
Valjean struggles for words.
Valjean hangs his head.
Valjean bows, and Marius, his arm no longer in a sling but still walking with a limp, takes his leave.
Valjean carries a large trunk out to a waiting carriage.
Valjean grimaces in pain.
Marius is with Cosette.
On the journey he leans back in the carriage.
Cosette's wedding day.
Thenardier and his wife hitch a ride on the back of a carriage which arrives at the mansion.
They sneak round to the far side of the carriage, climb inside, and exit through the opposite door as if they'd arrived in the carriage.
Dressed finely, they mingle with the guests, stealing as they go.
Cosette and Marius dance happily.
Marius spots them.
The ring.
The Thenardiers are carried to the front door.
A nun walks slowly out of the sanctuary in the convent.
A brass crucifix stands between two candlesticks on an altar.
A weary Valjean sits on a chair.
A blanket is draped around his shoulders.
His eyes close.
His eyes are moist with tears.
Fantine kisses his forehead.
Cosette's in the convent.
Valjean rests his hand on Marius's head and gazes fondly at him.
Cosette leans down and kisses Valjean's other hand, which holds hers.
His head slumps forward.
His soul looks back to his dead Self in the sanctuary.
Ahead is the bishop stretching out a hand.
Fantine lowers her head.
Marius holds the wheeping cossete tightly in her arms as Valjean Walks towards the bishop.
The dead man the Barricades.
A beam of light shines out from a lighthouse and sweeps across a shimmering blue ocean.
The woman, Kate Armstrong, raises her eyebrows.
In a tidy restaurant kitchen, Kate, a pretty brunette in her late 30s, ties a dazzling white chef's apron around her waist.
She checks some orders attached to a shelf.
Kate steps into a walk-in fridge and leans wearily against a rack.
In the restaurant, she chats to a middle-aged couple.
Mr. and Mrs. Peterson leave.
Kate shakes hands with another couple and makes her way back through the restaurant.
Ken and his wife walk off.
In the kitchen.
To her chefs.
The busy chefs carry on with what they're doing.
Holding two plates of food, Kate turns around, her lips pursed as she contemplates their response.
Snow falls as Kate walks along a New York street.
Her long hair, previously tied up in a bun, now hangs loose under a black beret.
She steps through her front door into a modest apartment.
She drops her keys into a bowl on top of a cabinet and places some mail down beside it.
She checks her phone messages.
Kate's fast asleep in bed.
Kate blearily raises her head and reaches out and turns off her alarm clock.
It's half past four.
At a fish market.
Kate's cooking at home.
Kate wears a blue apron over her black top and jeans.
She hurries to answer the phone.
Kate walks down a flight of stairs in her apartment building.
Seeing a neighbor, she turns back.
Kate carries on down the stairs, as Sean goes into his apartment.
She walks back up the curving staircase to her apartment.
She unlocks the door and opens it, stands beside it for a few seconds then closes it again.
At her therapist's, Kate garnishes a plate of food.
She sits down as he tucks in.
Kate turns away.
At the restaurant.
The waitress collides with a colleague.
Pregnant Leah takes the bottle.
The waitress, Bernadette, gets it.
Kate reluctantly walk over to the phone.
Kate turns away from the hubbub of the kitchen as she listens.
Her eyes fill with tears.
Kate runs down a hospital corridor.
She stops at the reception desk and speaks to a nurse, who points to a room opposite.
Kate walks into the room, where young Zoe is lying in bed, her eyes closed.
Kate walks around the bed and looks down sadly at her niece, who has grazes above and below her right eye.
A balding doctor in his stands in the open doorway.
Dr. Barton pats Kate on the shoulder and walks away.
She stares through the window at the sleeping Zoe.
Kate's asleep on a chair next to Zoe's bed.
Kate slowly wakes up and takes in her surroundings.
She looks across at Zoe, who's staring at her.
Aunt and niece gaze at each other for a few moments.
Then, Kate sits up.
Kate stares unblinkingly at the young girl.
Tears roll down Zoe's face.
Kate nods sadly.
Zoe's anguished face is crumpled.
A tear trickles down Kate's face.
Kate walks wearily into her apartment.
She removes her long, red scarf from around her neck and walks over to the answer machine.
Transfixed, Kate stands in the hallway, clutching her coat.
She turns and walks back towards the door.
At the restaurant.
They all turn and stare as Kate walks in and past them.
Paula puts her wineglass down.
In the empty kitchen, Kate ties her apron around her waist.
Without looking at Paula, Kate walks away.
Concerned, Leah looks over at Kate who seems distracted, her eyes filling with tears.
Kate crouches on the floor of the walk-in fridge with Christine's letter.
Paula looks in at her through a window in the door.
Distraught, Kate looks up as Paula enters.
Kate nods, her chin quivering.
Paula takes hold of Kate's hands.
In Zoe's hospital room.
Kate walks in.
Kate walks to the end of Zoe's bed and places her bag down on the over-bed table.
Kate takes the bag and places it on a chair by the window.
She puts her handbag beside it, and takes off her coat and scarf as she talks to Zoe.
Zoe goes back to watching the Bugs Bunny cartoon.
Kate sits in the chair beside her bed.
Zoe looks away.
Zoe gives a faint nod, and turns back to the TV.
A yellow taxicab drives along a New York street.
Zoe sits in the back seat, looking out through the rain- splashed window as if in a trance.
The cab pulls up.
Zoe and Kate get out.
Zoe slings a red rucksack over her shoulder and stands looking up at Kate's apartment building.
A smart brownstone with a wide set of steps leading up to an arched entranceway.
Inside, Kate shows Zoe around the apartment.
Kate walks down a hallway.
Zoe walks slowly into her new bedroom.
It's light and airy, with a large bay window and window seat and a huge double bed.
At a cemetery, high on a hill overlooking the city, Zoe stares morosely at her mother's casket, which sits by the graveside.
As other mourners begin to disburse, Zoe turns to Kate.
The two of them walk slowly away.
A large, lifelike, cuddly toy giraffe is carried up the steps of Kate's brownstone.
More toys and a bike are taken inside.
Zoe carries a stuffed elephant.
A collection of cuddly toys are arranged around Zoe's room.
She unpacks a rabbit.
A plate of vegetables and a fish with a gaping mouth is slid in front of Zoe.
Zoe sits and stares at her dinner in horror, as Kate squeezes lemon over her fish.
Zoe shakes her head.
Kate's smile fades and she looks disappointed, as Zoe gets up and leaves the table.
Zoe sits in her bedroom, playing with a red-haired rag doll.
Zoe looks sadly down at her doll, as Kate goes.
Patrons sitting in a window table smile and chat as they enjoy a meal.
Kate rounds a corner and enters the restaurant, walking straight past Paula who's standing by the door chatting to two customers.
Kate makes her way through the crowded dining area.
Hearing singing, Kate slows down as she nears the kitchen.
She meets Bernadette coming out with two plates.
Kate walks into the kitchen.
Leah's standing with a man holding a pastry brush.
The man turns.
He conducts.
Kate watches in disbelief, as the man raises his arms in the air and sings to the staff.
He's holding an uncooked quail in his other hand.
Kate turns to Paula.
Kate whisks the man's coat off him.
Paula leads the couple to their table.
Kate and Paula go into a small glass-fronted room filled with well-stocked, floor-to-ceiling wine racks.
Kate's speechless.
She looks over at Nick, who stands grinning at her.
Kate points at a pan on the stove next to him.
The contents have caught fire.
Kate shakes her head at Paula in disbelief, then grabs her bag and heads out.
A flicker of a smile plays on Paula's lips.
Kate wearily climbs the stairs to her apartment.
A packet of chopsticks have been sellotaped to her door.
She bends down and picks up a plastic take-away bag.
She takes the chopsticks off the door and walks inside.
She walks down the hallway to Zoe's bedroom.
Kate pokes her head around the open door, then tries to enter her own bedroom.
The door won't budge.
She forces it open a crack.
Kate sees Zoe curled up, asleep on her bed.
Kate walks into the bathroom and enters her bedroom through an adjoining door.
A chair has been propped up against the bedroom door to prevent anyone from entering.
Kate walks over and moves it aside, along with a wicker laundry basket.
Kate steps slowly towards the bed and picks up the remote control, which is lying next to Zoe.
She turns off the TV.
Kate looks down at her sleeping niece, then places the remote on a chest of drawers.
She gently covers Zoe with the bedclothes, then notices as photo album, which had been hidden beneath them.
Kate moves the photo album around and begins to look through it.
On one page, a photograph of Christine with baby Zoe.
On another, a smiling Christine next to a birthday cake.
A photo of Zoe with a teddy bear.
A photo of Christine and Kate, their arms around each other, both grinning happily at the camera.
Recent photos of Zoe.
Kate closes the album, then places it down on the chest of drawers.
She turns off a lamp and makes her way slowly around the bed.
Kate sits down on the edge of the bed and looks down wistfully.
Next morning, Zoe stands by the bed looking down at Kate, who's fast asleep.
Sleepy Kate open her eyes and looks at the clock.
Zoe's in her room.
Zoe stares at her.
Kate sighs resignedly.
In Zoe's room, Kate searches through a cardboard box.
She pulls out a scarf.
Zoe shakes her head.
Kate finds another one.
Zoe shakes her head again.
Kate puts the pink, stripy scarf back and begins to look through a second box.
Zoe follows Kate into the hallway.
Kate picks up her keys and grabs her coat.
Zoe stands and stares at the door.
Kate walks back to her.
Zoe, wearing a red woolen hat and multicolored scarf, gives a brief nod then looks away.
Zoe looks away.
Kate comes back with the coffee.
Scores of children make their way towards a large, brown brick building.
Kate and Zoe walk along the street and stop by the side of a yellow school bus which is parked outside.
Inside the school, Kate and Zoe walk down a corridor decorated with children's drawings.
Ellen takes Zoe's hand and leads her away.
Kate's with her therapist.
Incredulous, Kate lies back on the couch.
A gaggle of schoolchildren run down the steps of Zoe's school.
Kate stands with the other parents and guardians on the pavement outside.
She smiles as she sees Zoe walking out on her own.
The two of them walk along the street together.
At home.
Zoe's at the table.
Kate takes her plate to the table.
Kate hurries to the front door.
A teenager with a nose piercing.
Kate looks the young goth up and down.
Kate looks round as Zoe walks past.
Then, turns back to Charlotte.
Kate smiles awkwardly at the sulky young woman.
Charlotte steps into the apartment.
Kate closes the door behind her.
Kate walks off towards Zoe's room.
Kate nods slowly.
Then, she and Zoe share a look.
At the restaurant.
In the kitchen, Leah's with Nick.
Kate walks past them and turns off the CD player.
Nick looks up.
Kate bristles.
The staff sit around a table, as Nick dishes up spaghetti.
A plate is passed along to Kate.
Handsome, shaggy-haired Nick stares at Kate, a little put out.
Nick gives Paula a look.
He takes the plate of spaghetti over to where Kate is sitting at the far end of the table and sets it down in front of her.
Hungrily tucking into their food, Leah and Bernadette watch Nick and Kate.
Kate, who's been doing a crossword in the paper, sticks a pencil into her neat bun and takes a mouthful of the pasta.
She looks up at Nick petulantly.
Nick walks back over to Paula.
Kate glares at Nick.
Then, with a face like thunder, stands up and storms out.
In her office, Kate slices a menu in half.
Kate gets back to her paperwork.
Later, in the busy kitchen.
She goes over to Nick.
Nick dips a spoon into a pan and holds it out for Kate to taste.
Kate has her own spoon.
She walks off.
Nick tries the sauce and looks pleased.
Later, he stirs another pan.
Nick smiles as he chats with Leah.
Kate notices the two of them talking and looks over at them disapprovingly.
Leah throws her head back and laughs.
To her line cooks.
Nick catches Kate's eye.
He holds out a pan and offers her a taste of the food he's cooking.
She shakes her head dismissively and wanders off.
A selection of mouth-watering desserts are arranged neatly on gleaming, white plates.
A circular chocolate pud, garnished with raspberries.
A delicate chocolate teardrop, topped with a swirl of cream.
An immaculate fruit tart.
Kate uses a blowtorch to caramelize a fourth dessert.
She turns away from her workspace and almost collides with Nick.
He puts a plate down on the worktop, and picks up a squeezy bottle of dessert sauce.
Kate picks up another bottle and begins to decorate a plate.
She briefly looks up at him.
Kate picks up a delicate spun-sugar cage, and gently positions it over a white chocolate mousse on a bed of sliced strawberries.
Nick watches over her shoulder, unnerving Kate.
She breaks the cage.
Kate picks up the dessert plate and a plate containing a second sugar cage, and moves to the other side of the worktop.
Nick stairs at her, contemplatively.
She walks off.
In the walk-in fridge.
Bernadette hurries out.
Kate leans wearily against a shelving unit.
She looks up, as Nick enters the fridge and walks up to her.
Kate looks away from him.
Nick removes his apron.
They leave the fridge.
Kate turns to Leah, who looks back at her pleadingly.
Kate eyes Nick coolly.
She turns on the blowtorch.
He walks off, past her.
Kate has absentmindedly held the blowtorch to her side.
A tea towel tucked into her apron has caught fire.
Kate throws it to the floor and stamps out the flames.
She turns off the blowtorch and puts it down, a little embarrassed.
Kate arrives home.
She looks around with a frown and makes her way through to the kitchen.
A plate of cigarette ends sits on the table.
She picks it up and empties the cigarette butts into the bin.
Kate looks at a clock above the stove.
She makes her way down the hall to Zoe's bedroom.
Zoe's made herself a den under the bed.
Kate nods, then peers under the bed.
Zoe's got several stuffed toys with her.
Zoe gives a brief nod, and looks away from her aunt.
Kate's smile fades, and she looks down sadly.
Zoe turns back to Kate.
Zoe gives a faint smile.
Kate kisses her fingers and touches Zoe's forehead.
Kate pulls the valance sheet down, hiding Zoe from view.
Kate stands up.
She walks slowly out of the bedroom and makes to close the door behind her.
She has a change of heart and leaves it open.
The next day, Kate and Zoe walk down the street towards the restaurant.
Paula looks up as they enter the restaurant.
Kate leads Zoe towards the kitchen.
In the kitchen, a bored Zoe sits on a worktop, swinging her legs.
Kate chats to Leah.
Nick has overheard.
Nick searches around on a shelf behind Zoe and brings out a bowl and bunch of basil.
He places the bowl down next to Zoe and sniffs the basil.
He begins to pick the leaves, then holds the bunch out to Zoe.
Zoe smells it.
Kate sees Nick talking to Zoe.
She watches as Nick gives a handful of basil to Zoe.
The youngster hesitates for a moment, then begins to help him pick the leaves.
Paula walks in.
Paula goes back into the restaurant.
Later, Nick empties a pan of spaghetti and tomato sauce into a large pasta bowl.
Nick walks over to where Zoe's sitting.
Sits beside her with the spaghetti.
Zoe watches him a little shyly, as Nick sprinkles some of the basil leaves over his meal.
Nick winds the spaghetti around his fork and begins to eat.
Zoe eyes the food hungrily.
A waiter addresses the kitchen.
Nick hands the bowl of spaghetti to Zoe and goes back to work.
He watches her, as she looks down longingly at the pasta.
Zoe looks over at Nick, then back down at the spaghetti.
She gingerly picks up the fork and takes a mouthful.
Nick continues to watch her as he works.
Zoe tucks in hungrily to the spaghetti.
Zoe grins at him.
Walking back into the kitchen, Kate picks up her apron and ties it around her waist.
She gapes in surprise as she sees Zoe devouring the bowl of spaghetti.
Kate looks quizzically at Leah, who smiles and gestures towards Nick.
He turns around.
He nods with a smile.
Zoe frowns at Nick.
Leah, wearing a thick winter coat, slings her bag over her shoulder as she leaves the staff changing room.
Kate walks into her office, where Zoe is slumped over the desk fast asleep.
Kate places a scarf around her neck, and looks down at her drawing of a sailboat and a dolphin that Zoe's resting on.
Kate carries Zoe through the kitchen.
As she reaches the door, she turns back to Nick with a warm smile.
He looks back at her kindly and watches them go.
In Zoe's dark bedroom, Kate lays her sleeping niece down gently onto the bed.
She undoes the laces on Zoe's red and white baseball boots and removes them.
She places one of Zoe's stuffed toys down beside her.
Zoe immediately cuddles up to it.
Next morning.
Kate reaches out to turn off her square-faced alarm clock, which reads half-past four.
She turns onto her back and opens her eyes sleepily.
Kate pulls on a dark Berber-style jacket, as she walks through to the lounge to pick up her mobile.
She heads towards the front door.
Kate peers back up the hallway at Zoe, who's standing in her bedroom doorway clutching her cuddly Kangaroo.
At the fish market, a bored-looking Zoe stands nearby.
She's still clutching her cuddly toy.
She yawns sleepily.
Back at home, Kate and Zoe are asleep on the sofa.
Kate stares.
She checks her watch.
Kate hurries off.
Later, they run along the pavement to the school.
Kate watches Zoe as she climbs the front steps, opens the heavy front door and goes inside.
At the restaurant, Kate and Leah are with a mustachioed man.
Leah sniffs it.
He reaches into a bag.
He conducts Leah, as she breathes deeply.
Kate walks into her apartment with a smile.
Her long, dark hair hanging loose in large, soft waves.
She hangs her bag on a hook by the door, drops her keys into the bowl and begins to remove her coat.
Her smile suddenly disappears.
She grabs her keys and her bag and scurries out again.
In a taxi.
Kate jumps out of the taxi and hurries towards the school.
Zoe's sitting on the steps.
Zoe ignores her.
Zoe stands up and strides peevishly towards the yellow cab.
Kate follows her and gets in beside her.
She pulls the door shut.
At home, Zoe stomps straight into her bedroom.
Kate walks into hers.
Kate's bedroom door opens.
She slowly steps out into the hallway.
She crosses to Zoe's room and hesitates for a moment, before knocking on the door.
Zoe lies on her bed, her back to Kate.
Zoe turns and sits up a little.
Aunt and niece stare at one another.
Kate looks down, then turns and starts to walk out of the room.
Kate gives a faint smile.
At the restaurant.
Zoe's peeling asparagus spears.
Three black truffles sit on one side of her chopping board.
Kate puts a plate down beside her, and grates a small amount of one of the truffles over her roast quail.
She then hands the plate to a colleague.
Zoe picks up the asparagus trimmings and drops them into a bin.
She picks up a truffle and sniffs it.
Screwing her face up in disgust, she drops it and the other two into the bin.
Kate comes back with a second plate.
She looks around for the missing truffles and finds them in the bin.
Kate retrieves the truffles.
She takes out a yellow lockbox and opens it.
It contains even more truffles.
Zoe watches bemused, as Kate puts the truffles into it.
Watching, Nick smiles to himself.
He chats to Zoe as he chops onions.
Holding a large stainless steel bowl, Zoe kneels down in front of a box of potatoes.
Nick picks a couple up and shows them to her.
He chats on the phone in the office, as Zoe fills the bowls with potatoes and walks off with it.
Later, Nick holds a spoonful of sauce out to Zoe.
She tastes it and nods her approval.
Zoe teaches Nick some dance moves.
They punch their arms in the air and point.
In the restaurant, Nick dishes out pasta.
The staff tuck in hungrily.
Zoe passes a plate to Kate, who tries to pass it on.
Her colleague already has a plate, so Kate hands it back to Zoe.
Zoe stares at Kate.
She taps her on the shoulder and holds the plate out to her.
Kate takes it, somewhat reluctantly, and begins to eat.
Kate nods and smiles at him warmly.
Zoe and Kate are in a park.
Zoe, who's been walking along park benches next to Kate, stops and leans across to whisper in Kate's ear.
Zoe jumps down and walks ahead.
In the restaurant.
Nick heads into the kitchen, donning his white apron.
Later, Kate draws back a curtain to look down at Zoe, who is pacing on the wintry street outside the apartment.
Kate smiles and goes down.
Zoe stands on a stool in the bathroom, plaiting her hair.
Zoe runs to the apartment door, flings it open and heads downstairs.
Nick checks Kate's cupboards.
Kate takes a box from his bag.
Zoe ushers Kate out of the kitchen.
Nick shows Zoe how to make a pizza base.
She leads Kate by the hand.
A picnic is laid out on the lounge floor.
Sitting on cushions in front of a roaring fire, under a sheet stretched out like a safari tent, the trio share the pizza.
Zoe pretends to be an elephant.
The three then play pick-up sticks with bread sticks.
By the light of several candles, Zoe acts out a charade.
Wax drips down tall candlesticks beside a half-empty cafetiere of coffee.
Zoe's fast asleep on a cushion.
Nick crawls round to Zoe and lifts her from the floor.
His shadow casts on the side of the sheet tent as he carries her out.
Kate takes out a small tray with two espresso cups on it.
She pauses to look down the hallway and watch Nick, as he gently carries Zoe to her bedroom.
She turns back and stares ahead thoughtfully.
Later, the pair are tidying up.
Nick opens the fridge and takes out the Tupperware box Kate found in his bag.
They sit on the lounge floor with a tiramisu between them.
Kate's face brightens as she tastes a spoonful.
The candles and firelight illuminate the room.
Nick moves across to sit beside Kate.
Nick reaches out and wipes a spot of cream from the right side of Kate's mouth.
He licks the cream from his finger, and gazes intently at her.
Kate's face is turned towards Nick.
She looks away briefly and nods.
He reaches behind Kate and moves nearer.
Lips almost touching, she leans back against his arm.
Kate shifts awkwardly as Nick puts on his scarf.
He stands, picks up his jacket from the back of the sofa and puts it on as he enters the darkened kitchen to retrieve his pants.
Kate smiles serenely to herself.
At the therapist.
He spins around in his leather chair.
Kate furrows her brow.
Kate joins the headmistress in her spacious office.
Kate leaves.
In the park, Zoe is walking on the benches.
Zoe runs off.
Kate chases after her.
Zoe narrowly avoids being hit by a Yellow Cab as she runs across a busy road.
Kate dodges the traffic to follow her.
Kate steps back and watches helplessly as Zoe runs off.
Later, Zoe is on her bed looking at the photo album.
As Zoe flicks through the album, she finds a peacock feather like the one she was playing with shortly before the car crash.
She sighs and her eyes well with tears.
Kate goes down to Sean's apartment.
In the dark and deserted kitchen, Kate and Nick share a plate of food and drink red wine across the serving counter.
They talk happily together.
In the pouring rain, Nick dashes out of his truck outside Kate's apartment building.
She puts up an umbrella as he helps her out.
They climb the spiral staircase inside the building.
Nick leans in and kisses Kate full on the lips.
Nick looks back briefly as he descends the stairs.
Kate grins to herself.
In the amber half-light of a darkened room, Kate is fast asleep in bed.
The door is ajar.
The hallway light comes on, and Zoe slips past the open door clutching a video.
Kate stares as she sees Zoe.
Wearing pajamas, Kate wanders down the hallway towards a dull, flickering light emanating from the lounge.
She pauses outside the open lounge door.
Zoe sits on the floor.
Zoe watches a home movie of Christine frolicking on a dull, wind-swept beach.
She flaps her arms as if pretending to fly as she runs down to the edge of a grey sea.
Kate enters the lounge, and joins Zoe on the floor.
Now, the TV screen fills with Christine and Zoe's ecstatically happy faces.
Christine kisses her smiling daughter on the cheek and beams back at the camera.
Attractive, long blonde haired Christine throws back her hair and laughs joyously.
Tears well in Zoe's doleful eyes.
Kate looks away from the TV and down at Zoe.
She puts an arm around her niece.
Zoe leans into Kate as the video plays.
Christine is running along the beach, waving back at the camera, her jacket and scarf flapping behind her.
The grainy video comes to an end.
Morning, Kate and Zoe are in Zoe's bed.
They lie facing each other, Zoe with her arm on Kate's shoulder.
Daylight fills the room.
Kate watches a sleeping Zoe.
Zoe stares.
A smile flickers across Zoe's lips.
Then, she closes her eyes again.
Kate places an arm around Zoe, and she too closes her eyes.
At the restaurant.
Bernadette reads a letter.
Now, Zoe runs out of her bedroom and down the corridor chased by Kate, who ambushes her coming out of the lounge.
Feathers fly as Kate and Zoe gleefully batter each other with their pillows.
Kate pushes Zoe backwards onto the sofa.
Exhausted, the pair collapse onto the hall floor.
Feathers drift down around them.
At the restaurant, Nick commands a hectic kitchen.
The dining room is packed.
Paula and her waiting staff move busily around the tables.
Later, she and Nick relax with a brandy.
Paula eyes Nick with a smile.
Kate's fast asleep in bed.
Kate flicks on her bedside lamp.
She rises and, wearing her dressing gown, answers the intercom.
Nick and Kate sit across from each other at a desk in the lamp-lit lounge.
He spoon-feeds the blindfolded Kate some sauce from a container between them.
In the soft glow of the lamp, Nick observes Kate with a smile.
He pretends to spoon more of the sauce, and Kate opens her mouth ready to taste it.
Nick draws the spoon away a couple of times and watches her full lips open and close.
Then, he leans over and plants a kiss to one side of her mouth.
The couple move apart slightly and Kate pulls off her blindfold.
She moves back in towards Nick.
Nick's face edges towards Kate's, and this time he kisses her fully on the lips.
The couple begin to kiss more urgently.
Kate brings her hands up to cup Nick's face and she stands.
Her eyes are closed and her face is relaxed into a serene ecstasy, as Nick kisses her neck then returns to her lips.
Finally, Kate falls into Nick's embrace.
Next morning, Nick strides down the hallway rattling a spoon in a saucepan.
In Zoe's room.
Zoe, Kate and Nick are piled into a photo booth.
Outside, Kate screams with glee at the pictures.
The trio walk down a cold, sunny New York street.
Nick has Zoe on his shoulders.
All three wear coats, scarves and woolly hats.
They dart across a busy street to a Chinese vegetable shop.
They leave the shop.
All three wear cycling helmets as they pedal a bicycle made for three.
The sun sets against the Manhattan skyline as they pedal alongside the river.
Nick sits up front.
Later in the evening, they come across a street artist copying a fantastical picture of a ballerina onto the pavement in colored chalk.
Nick and Kate hold hands.
Zoe beams up at them as she admires the drawing.
The staff are gathered at the restaurant to review the menu.
In the kitchen, Nick completes a vegetable garnish on a dish and lays it out for a waiter.
Kate eyes him with suspicion.
Paula strolls in from the dining room.
Nick is wide-eyed with surprise as he watches Kate stride off to the walk-in fridge.
He joins her.
The couple stare at each other.
From the kitchen, they're framed in the window of the fridge door.
Kate is left thoughtful.
She returns to her apartment, where a woman in her waits on the sofa.
Kate locks the apartment door, turns out the hall lights and saunters back into the room.
Passing a side table, she presses a button on the answer phone then lifts a remote and turns off the music.
Kate stares thoughtfully.
She heads towards her bedroom.
Zoe cuddles up to her furry kangaroo.
Kate goes into her room.
Zoe rolls onto her side.
At the restaurant, Paula tackles Kate as she prepares dishes.
Kate interviews a series of applicants.
At the apartment, Zoe watches TV as Kate works at her desk.
Zoe returns to watching the black-and-white gangster movie on the TV.
Zoe's eyes dart around as she thinks.
Suddenly, she rises resolutely from the sofa, strides out of the open-plan lounge and down the hallway, past the double doors opening onto Kate's desk.
She ignores Kate.
Kate remains at her desk.
In her room, Zoe sits on her bed with a scarlet-haired smiling rag doll resting on her drawn up knees.
She pulls up the doll's striped skirt and red polka dot top.
Zoe considers the words with downcast eyes, then replaces the doll's clothing.
She stares into the doll's face.
Wearing a white dressing gown and with damp hair, Kate strides down the hallway.
Kate is outside Zoe's school.
They drive around in Nick's blue pickup truck.
Kate holds her hand to her mouth.
She runs her hand through her hair.
Kate moves around to the side of Zoe's bed and catches sight of the cuddly toys on her pillow.
She considers them briefly, then picks up the furry kangaroo.
They drive past leafless trees into the bleak, deserted cemetery.
Zoe returns the hug that Kate has given her.
Both crying, Kate kisses Zoe's cheek and gently wipes away her tears.
The pair separate.
Zoe mouths an acknowledgment, then turns to pick up her red rucksack.
They stand.
Kate brushes off her long, black coat and takes Zoe's hand as they walk away from the grave towards Nick, who's been watching from a distance.
Amid the faded flowers on the grave is Zoe's peacock feather, fluttering in the breeze.
Nick drives Zoe and Kate home.
As he pulls up, Zoe turns to him.
Kate and Zoe climb out of the truck.
Kate hands her the keys.
Nick offers his hand, which Kate takes.
Her eyes fix longingly on him.
Nick squeezes her hand.
She pulls away.
She closes the door and looks at Nick through the window.
Kate stands alone in the sunlit street as a truck drives away.
The busy restaurant kitchen.
Bernadette reenters the kitchen.
Brandishing an uncooked steak held high on a carving fork, Kate marches out of the kitchen through the dining room and up to table seven.
Kate tears off her apron, thrusts it at a waiter, and strides out.
Paula stares blankly as Kate hails a cab and gets in.
On her therapist's roof terrace overlooking Manhattan, Kate turns and eyes the man with realization.
In a shabby elevator, Kate clutches a copper saucepan wrapped in a tea towel.
She steps out onto a landing lined with a discarded metal trolley and window grill.
She hesitates, then knocks.
Without taking his eyes off Kate, Nick steps back from the door, revealing an open-plan loft apartment beyond.
She crosses the threshold and approaches Nick.
He looks down at her mouth and moves tentatively in to kiss her, pushing the door shut as he does so.
She whisks a sauce.
He ties filets of beef.
Both in chef's whites, Nick and Kate stand back to back in a kitchen.
They turn and glance playfully at each other.
She tastes it with her little finger.
Nick puts a hand to the back of Kate's neck and kisses her passionately.
She throws her arms around him and pulls him to her.
Beyond the couple is a small, homely and packed restaurant.
Zoe runs up to the kitchen counter.
Kate serves her pancakes.
Zoe sprinkles sugar.
Carrying the plate away, Zoe greets Leah with her baby.
Zoe exits the corner restaurant, which has a red door and windows.
She carries the plate to one of several busy al fresco tables.
She delivers the pancakes to Sean, who is with his twin boys.
A joyful Zoe leaves the trio to their breakfasts and passes back around the corner of the restaurant, acknowledging an elderly man who considers a leaflet.
Each side of the triangle contains a name written in white.
Now, back inside the restaurant, Zoe stands up at the window and turns the triangle so that Zoe's name runs across the top.
A lady's hand at work on a delicate piece of floral embroidery.
Two horses are charging across the English countryside.
Their riders stop at a vantage point from where they can see a sizable mansion nestling between trees at a distance.
With a broad smile, Mr. Bingley rides on towards his new property, followed by his companion, Mr. Darcy.
Watching from a distance, as the two horses thunder across the fields, is a young woman, Elizabeth Bennet.
Up on the hillside, she turns away from the scene with a smile playing on her lips.
Wearing a straw bonnet and simple day dress, Lizzie sets off down a country lane.
She turns as she walks, taking in the green and earthy countryside all around her, before breaking out into a canter.
Having picked a posy of wild flowers from the woods, Lizzie crosses a small field where a chestnut mare and her foal are grazing in the sunshine.
She walks on, towards the village beyond.
Now approaching her house, Longbourn, she bypasses the entrance when she hears her sisters arguing inside.
Lizzie peers into her father's study.
Father and daughter roll their eyes amd smile.
Lydia dons Kitty's bonnet.
Kitty bolts from the room in tears, passing Jane in the hall.
Now, outside church, Mrs. Bennet is in deep conversation with a neighbor.
Her five daughters set off behind their father.
So, Mrs. Bennet prizes herself away and runs to catch up with them.
Mr. Bennet strides ahead into the house and sets down his hat and cane.
A maid rushes to attend Mrs. Bennet.
Lizzie and Jane can't help smiling.
Lydia rolls her eyes.
Later, Jane sits at her dressing table, brushing through her long, flaxen hair by candlelight.
A wistful Lizzie sits behind her.
Lizzie kisses Jane on the head,
then walks out of the room.
Lizzie closes her bedroom door behind her.
Meanwhile, downstairs, Mr. Bennet is working late in his study, poring over the household accounts.
He marks up a book, puts his quill back in its pot,
before wearily shaking his head and sitting back in his chair.
With a sly look to the side, he reaches for a drinks decanter.
Upstairs, Lizzie is leaning on her dressing table, studying her own reflection.
She practices a few facial expressions, smiles,
then finally blows out the candle.
Whilst people are milling around on the main street, a grand carriage pulls up outside The Assembly Rooms, led by men bearing torches.
The servant opens the door and holds down the carriage steps.
Bingley alights first, smiles at his surroundings,
and puts on his large Napoleonic-style hat.
Looking a little more serious, Darcy comes next,
followed by Miss Bingley, who's wearing a grand ball gown and feather hat.
A third man, Mr. Hurst, comes over.
Darcy regards the building with an air of detachment.
Inside, the dancing is well under way, with smiling men and women in pastel gowns holding hands and going round in a circle.
An older man, Sir William Lucas, claps from the sidelines.
Dressed in their empire-line dresses, Lizzie and Lydia are thoroughly enjoying themselves.
With dainty steps, they set to their partners and do-si-do before re-forming the circle.
In a two-line formation, before the chamber musicians, the ladies and gentlemen, set to their respective partners.
Then, in unison, glide across the floor, back and forth, a blaze of color and feathers.
Heralding the arrival of the Bingley party, an awestruck hush descends upon the room.
The new arrivals look distinctly ill at ease, before
Sir William Lucas hurries over to greet them.
As people take to the floor again, Lizzie joins Jane and Mary, who are standing with Sir William's daughter, Charlotte.
The two girls go to join their mother.
The ladies curtsy.
But, with a curt bow, Darcy is gone, much to Mrs. Bennet's annoyance.
Jane glances at her mother, before returning her attention to Bingley.
Later, she's dancing with him, holding hands and smiling warmly.
Whilst the young couple are enjoying themselves, watching at the side, Darcy cannot hide his disdain.
Darcy turns and spots Mrs. Bennet holding court over tea and cake, not bothering to hide her contempt for him.
Then, moving on, he spots Kitty and Lydia, running wild through the hall.
On the dark street below, local men are getting merry and mimicking the dancing going on inside.
One man is so enthusiastic he trips and falls in a water trough.
When Jane and Bingley's dance comes to an end, he leads her by the hand to present her to his sisters.
Mrs. Bennet looks on, with an approving smile.
Jane and Bingley dance again.
Bingley wears a dark tailcoat with pale satin breeches.
Jane's dress is a delicate creamy gold with puff sleeves.
She wears long white evening gloves.
Bingley, who has noble features and fair curly hair, is an accomplished dancer, moving through the steps with ease and grace.
Darcy prowls through the hall, his face set in grim forbearance.
Sir William goes to speak to him, but then thinks better of it.
Nearby, Lizzie is sitting with a rather serious Mary.
With a nervous glance at his party, Bingley allows Jane to lead him to be introduced to Charlotte Lucas.
Another dance begins.
Sitting nearby, Lizzie hears him and bristles.
Bingley heads off.
Having heard everything, Lizzie looks at Darcy out the corner of her eye.
Then, with a mischievous smile, she gets up and crosses the room in front of him.
Watching her pass by, his eyes linger on her for a long moment as she talks to Charlotte.
However, when he realizes they're discussing him, he turns away.
Resplendent in her green silk gown and fashionable feather hat, Miss Bingley is tolerating the dancing, wheeling in and out with a haughty air.
Lizzie is up with Bingley and having a much better time of it.
Whilst Miss Bingley and Mrs. Hurst watch the moment with disgust, slumped in a chair,
a sozzled Mr. Hurst taps his glass, demanding a refill.
Mrs. Bennet watches with glee as Jane and Bingley happily dance together.
Darcy's not so pleased.
They hurry to greet her.
At the party, Mary is playing the piano.
Several men, in the red and gold brocade uniforms of their regiment, mill amongst the party-goers.
Lydia and Kitty are surrounded by officers.
Darcy stands, watching proceedings with his customary aloof air.
On the opposite side of the room, Lizzie catches his brooding stare and is, for the briefest moment, affected by it, before she quickly composes herself and turns to Colonel Forster.
The Bingley sisters share a look.
Lydia grabs a young boy and girl by the hand and leads them on to the floor.
A several officers join them.
Lizzie turns and looks at the intimate pair.
Mr. Darcy becomes aware of them looking at him and glowers.
Lydia is dancing playfully.
Lizzie makes her way across the room.
Darcy watches Lizzie go.
Miss Bingley sidles up to him.
She looks decidedly put out.
As she backs away from him, his gaze remains on Lizzie.
Now, the Bennets' dining room.
Mr. Bennet raises his eyebrows.
Now, Jane is riding Nellie through a rainstorm.
She's soaked through.
At home, Lizzie looks with concern at the storm outside.
She gives her mother a reproachful look.
Jane continues, making slow progress.
Now, she's seated in an ornate dining room, eating dinner with Bingley's sisters.
Miss Bingley gives her a patronizing smile.
Jane closes her eyes, looking faint.
Now, the Bennets are eating breakfast.
Lizzie, Lydia and Kitty are walking arm-in-arm through Meryton.
Lydia looks around distractedly.
They scurry away together.
Lizzie is walking through a field, holding her bonnet in her hand.
She climbs over a stile, the hem of her pale dress already caked in mud.
She lands in a quagmire.
Her boots are filthy.
She gives a good-natured shrug and carries on her way.
She trots over the field towards Netherfield Hall, standing proudly in the distance.
As she gets closer, she walks under the shadow of a tree,
then startled when Darcy emerges around a corner.
He is equally startled.
She curtsies.
She becomes a little embarrassed.
He disguises a look of amusement, then steps aside for her to pass and follows her, as she strides towards the Hall.
Now Lizzie is sitting on Jane's sickbed.
She gently strokes her sleeping sister's face.
Jane slowly opens her eyes and looks weakly at Lizzie,
who gives her a hopeful smile.
At dining room.
Miss Bingley's good humor fades.
He stalks across the room.
Lizzie is shown in.
Two spaniels frighten pheasants from a bush.
Lizzie is watching the shooting party from Jane's bedroom window.
She turns to look at her pale sister,
who smiles weakly up at her.
Lizzie smiles back at her, tearfully.
The hunting party is making its way back to Netherfield Hall under a twilight sky.
Lizzie turns away from a mirror.
She's wearing a white silk gown.
The sisters smile at each other.
Now Lizzie is walking down a staircase.
She looks around her uncertainly,
then is startled by a footman.
She smiles gratefully, then looks around nervously, unsure of where the drawing room is.
She walks into a dark corridor.
She enters the billiard room where Darcy is playing alone.
He swiftly bows to her.
She hesitates in the doorway for a moment before hurrying out.
Darcy looks after her thoughtfully before continuing with his game.
Now Lizzie is reading a book in the drawing room.
Darcy glances at the card game in progress, then crosses over to Lizzie.
Darcy takes a seat at a desk.
Eyebrows are raised.
Darcy realizes he is being spoken to.
Lizzie smiles.
Darcy holds Lizzie in a steady, thoughtful gaze.
Now Mrs. Bennet is being driven in a carriage.
Lydia and Kitty poke their heads out of the window excitedly to get a better look at the grand red brick facade of Netherfield Hall.
Mrs. Bennet and the girls are shown in.
Darcy walks away.
Mr. Bingley glares at his sniggering sisters.
She takes a seat.
Bingley glances over at Darcy.
Lizzie closes her eyes in embarrassment.
Now Darcy is washing in a copper bath.
A servant enters and pours a large jug of water over his head and back.
Darcy flicks water from his hair and leans back on towels against the high end of the bath.
Lizzie is walking through the grounds.
She smiles at a proud-looking gray and white Great Dane in her path.
It races off, and Lizzie delightedly chases after it.
Darcy leaves himself out of the bath and into a dressing gown held open for him by a servant.
He wraps the robe around himself
and crosses to the window.
In the garden below, he sees Lizzie.
She's playing with a dog, trying to wrestle a stick from its mouth.
Standing at the window, Darcy watches her every move.
Now Mr. Hurst is fast asleep in a chair.
Mrs. Hurst is also seated.
Caroline Bingley paces the room, holding an open book in her hands.
Mr. Bingley prods the fire with his foot.
Miss Bingley walks over to Darcy, who's engrossed in a book.
She flirtatiously leans on his chair in order to read over his shoulder.
He ignores her and turns the page.
With malevolent intent in her eyes, she crosses to Lizzie.
Lizzie looks around her awkwardly,
then shuts her book,
stands, and sets off, arms linked, around the room with Miss Bingley.
He considers this for a moment.
Miss Bingley attempts to break the palpable tension by crossing to the piano.
Darcy and Lizzie steadily hold each other's gazes.
Jane and Lizzie are in a two-horse carriage.
He beams at her.
Bingley steps away from the door, still grinning.
He raises a hand to bid them farewell.
As the carriage leaves, Darcy watches its progress from a window.
He remains staring out of the window.
Now inside the carriage.
Jane smiles dreamily.
A lady's hand at work on a delicate piece of floral embroidery.
Lizzie is walking through the countryside.
Green leaves are starting to turn brown.
She watches the progress of geese flying through the sky overhead.
At the Bennet's dining table.
He gives them a look.
An austere-looking woman.
The obsequious Mr. Collins pulls up.
He clumsily climbs down from the carriage, causing Jane to stifle a giggle.
He bows to them reverentially.
Now, a lavish dinner.
Lizzie gives her father a look.
Lizzie giggles.
Mr. Collins gives Jane an ingratiating smile.
Now the family is outside amusing themselves in the gardens.
Mr. Collins is walking with Mrs. Bennet.
He looks at the girls carefully.
Lydia and Kitty are playing a game with hoops,
Mary studying a book,
and finally Lizzie, laughing and smiling with Jane.
He bustles over to her.
She looks uncertain.
Now the sisters are walking over a stone bridge, accompanied by Mr. Collins.
He's exhausted from the walk.
They make their way into the village, carriages rolling past and people talking on corners.
Lydia and Kitty rush ahead and stop at a shop window.
Denny crosses to meet them with his companion.
Bingley and Darcy ride by.
He dismounts from his gray horse,
and joins them.
Mr. Wickham and Mr. Darcy spot each other.
A look passes between them before Mr. Wickham lifts his hat to him.
Lizzie watches the exchange with interest.
Lizzie studies Darcy as he rides away sitting stiff and proper in the saddle.
Lizzie and Kitty race in followed by Mary.
He backs away from them,
and takes a seat at a card table.
Lizzie looks grateful for his departure.
Mary starts playing the piano.
At the whist table, Mr. Collins lays down a card, much to Mrs. Phillips's disgust.
He falters for a moment, then his smile returns.
Lydia and Kitty are enjoying a card game with the officers.
Mr. Wickham, now resplendent in his red uniform, watches them with amusement before sitting down next to Lizzie.
He leans forward in his seat.
They smile at Lydia's celebrations.
Lizzie looks thoughtful.
Her eyes meet Mr. Wickham's and they smile at each other warmly.
She watches him dance with Lydia and smiles to herself.
A bedroom.
She lowers her eyes coyly.
Jane looks unsure.
He giggles.
A look between Lizzie and Jane.
Lydia and Kitty are being pushed on a swing by two uniformed officers.
Mr. Collins reluctantly follows Jane leaving Wickham and Lizzie alone.
They stroll through the garden together.
She turns to him.
They watch as Kitty jumps from the swing into the arms of an officer.
Then, they set off walking again.
Lizzie smiles contentedly to herself.
Now, Mrs. Bennet rushes into Lizzie's room,
where a maid is seeing to her hair.
Lizzie pops out her cheeks.
She runs out of the room.
Mr. Collins is leaving his room.
He's shocked to bump into the half-dressed Lydia.
He tries to pass her but the landing is too small.
He covers his eyes and walks hurriedly past the giggling Lydia.
Knowing the laughter is at him, he regains his composure before heading down the stairs.
Night time at Netherfield Hall.
A constant stream of carriages drop guests at the doors.
Mr. Collins helps Lizzie and Jane down from their carriage.
As they make their way up a flight of steps, Lizzie spots Darcy looking out of a window.
He catches her eye, then turns away.
The family makes its way inside, where their cloaks are taken by footmen in wigs.
Jane and Lizzie look around the room excitedly before being received by the Bingleys.
Lizzie steps away from her family and looks around the room searchingly.
Mr. Bingley standing with Jane calls over to her.
He offers her his arm, then leads them both through to the next room.
Musicians are playing at one end of a large wooden-floored room.
Mr. Bingley escorts the sisters proudly through the gathered guests,
nodding greetings to uniformed officers and finely attired ladies.
Lizzie looks around the other guests while Jane and Bingley chatter happily together.
A hopeful smile plays across her lips when she spots a group of red-coated officers gathered in a corner.
Darcy is standing a little behind the group.
He turns his head, and he and Lizzie catch each other's eye for a moment before she hastily looks away.
He continues looking at her.
A beautiful smile crosses her face, when Denny breaks away from the others and joins her.
They both look over at Darcy, who glowers before striding away.
Lydia and Kitty drag Denny and the other officer away.
Lizzie looks puzzled and a little disappointed.
Her bad humor disappears when she spies Charlotte across the room.
She hurries over to her happily.
He holds out a hand to Lizzie, who reluctantly takes it, and they cross the floor to join the dance.
Mr. Collins, all in black, prances over to the lady next to Lizzie.
They curtsey and bow, circle each other.
Then, he returns to the line of men.
As Lizzie dances, Mr. Collins leers at her.
Then, normally, makes to follow her in the dance.
Darcy is watching with amusement.
Lizzie sees him looking and glares.
Darcy's face drops and then returns to his usual stern composure.
He slowly walks around the dancers passing Mrs. Bennet deep in conversation.
He watches Jane and Bingley performing the intricate moves of the dance.
As they cross each other, briefly holding each other's outstretched hands, Darcy seems to take more of an interest in them.
He looks contemptuously at Lydia dancing with gay abandon with the officers.
Darcy turns back on himself stopping by flickering candles.
His eyes once more drawn back to Lizzie, skipping in a circle with her dance set,
her dark hair swinging like a ponytail.
Darcy's gaze is steady.
His high white shirt collar and dark coat frame his stern features.
Another dance is taking place.
Charlotte and Lizzie are talking.
Darcy is standing before them.
He bows.
They curtsy in return.
He bows once more and leaves.
Lizzie resignedly leaves Charlotte's sight.
With the men on one side of the floor and women on the other, Lizzie and Darcy stand opposite to each other looking serious.
The men slowly bow and the dance begins.
The gentlemen and the ladies grasp each other's hands, and circle one way, then the other.
Lizzie and Darcy maintain steady eye-contact throughout.
As they move away from each other, then double back to cross over.
A slight smile is playing across Lizzie's lips.
Darcy's face betrays no emotion.
They form a straight line with another couple before releasing hands,
turning and coming to a brief halt facing each other.
The dance forces them away from each other.
She sighs heavily raising her eyebrows.
They circle each other holding hands.
Darcy is still serious.
The passing of the dance leads Lizzie away for a moment, then back again.
They separate to allow a couple to move between them.
Then they return to being opposite to one another.
Lizzie hides a look of amusement as the dance continues.
The nine couples move in unison watched by other guests, a magnificent chandelier hanging over their heads.
Jane and Bingely stand out amongst the dancers.
They move with each other easily, sharing smiles.
The dancers move in intricate and formal patterns, circling their partners, then crossing to form lines.
The women hold out their arms gracefully forming delicate arcs before gliding back into their starting positions.
They separate, then come back.
Darcy looks at her defiantly.
Whilst his back is turned, Lizzie smiles to herself.
Lizzie raises her eyebrows.
They're interrupted by Sir William.
A look of growing concern crosses Darcy's face.
Once again, the dance forces them apart.
Lizzie's brow furrows into her frown.
Now, opposite to each other.
Darcy is beginning to look a little agitated as he circles another dancer.
Lizzie looks a little pleased with herself as the dance draws to a close.
The gentlemen and ladies bow and curtsy to each other.
Darcy takes Lizzie's hand and leads her from the floor.
He bows curtly and leaves.
Lizzie watches after him, frustratedly.
Now, the guests are gathered in a different room.
Mr. Bennett joins Mrs. Bennett at the dining table, where she's eating with relish.
Jane and Lizzie stand with a happy group, including Bingley.
Lizzie smiles and leaves them, meeting Miss Bingley.
Miss Bingley swans off.
Lizzie looks furious.
She strides to a punch bowl and serves herself a cup.
A concerned Jane follows her.
Mary leaps up from her chair and scurries to the piano.
Jane and Lizzie look mortified at Mary's clumsy playing.
A furious Miss Bingley signals for her sister to follow her.
They brush past Lizzie and Jane,
and start maliciously whispering to each other.
Darcy and Bingley look at Mary.
Mr. Bennet looks embarrassed.
Only Mrs. Bennet seems to be really enjoying it.
Mr. Darcy stands, towering over Mr. Collins.
Darcy walks away.
He passes Lizzie,
and joins the Bingley sisters.
Outside, dogs are reacting to marry's singing.
inside, the Bingley sisters look at Mary with barely disguised contempt.
Lizzie gives her father a desperate look.
He jumps up from his seat,
and joins Mary at the piano.
Mary peels off her glasses and leaves the piano, head bowed.
Louisa Hurst briskly crosses the room and sits at the piano.
Mr. Collins stands awkwardly at the piano, silenced by the playing,
he tries to cover up by waving his hands to the music.
Lydia comes skipping and swirling into the room.
Holding an officer's sword above her head,
she collapses in a chair.
Lizzie looks mortified.
Mrs. Hurst smiles smugly.
Mrs. Bennet closes the door on them,
then leans in to eavesdrop.
She scurries away.
He holds up a hand to stop her.
She takes a seat.
He looks shocked.
He rises from bended knee.
She hurries out.
He mops his sweaty brow with a handkerchief.
He closes his book.
Lizzie comes in defiantly.
Lizzie goes to stand closer to her father.
Lizzie gives her hysterical mother a wry smile.
Outside, Lydia and Kitty are heading out.
They all look back at the house.
Charlotte heads towards the house.
She pauses for a moment, lost in thought.
Inside, Mr. Collins is packing.
He bows.
Charlotte follows him out.
A lady's hand at work on a delicate piece of floral embroidery.
Lydia and Kitty are hurrying excitedly over to their house, Longbourn.
They burst through the front door.
Jane sets down her embroidery,
as Lizzie slumps into a chair opposite.
The housekeeper comes in,
and hands a letter to Jane.
The housekeeper curtsies, then leaves the room.
Trunks and boxes are being ferried out of Netherfield.
In their cloaks and bonnets Kitty, Lydia and Lizzie are making their way through the busy town.
As Denny takes Lydia's arm, and Kitty is escorted away by Carter,
Wickham smiles hopefully at Lizzie.
She beams back at him.
The pair walk through the town together.
Later, Mrs. Bennet emerges from Longbourn, engrossed in conversation with Denny.
As the three girls follow their mother and the officers outside,
Lizzie catches Wickham's eye with a smile.
He nods politely towards her mother, then the three officers leave.
Just as the girls are heading back inside, Lydia chases after them.
She reaches up and whispers something to him.
He strides off with Carter and Wickham.
Inside, the tea things are being cleared away in the drawing room, where Mr. Bennet, Mary and Jane are sitting.
Mrs. Bennet bustles in.
The girls laugh.
Mr. Bennet walks out.
Jane is washing her hands in a basin in her room.
Drying her hands, Jane sits at the top of the four poster bed, Lizzie's at the bottom.
With a look of concern, Lizzie moves and sits next to Jane.
She looks at Jane and smiles.
A carriage, drawn by four white horses pulls into the drive at Longbourn.
As Mrs. Bennet comes running out of the house followed by Mr. Bennet and their daughters, a portly gentleman, Edward Gardiner and his wife emerge from the carriage.
Charlotte Lucas enters followed by Jane.
As they make their way across the crowded room, a girl with red hair eyes them curiously.
They pass Lizzie, who's engaged in a conversation with Wickham.
Mrs. Bennet's sitting with Mrs. Phillips and Mrs. Gardiner.
Lizzie approaches with Wickham.
Mrs. Bennet purses her lips, exchanges a glance with her sister and haughtily walks off.
Lizzie takes Wickham's hand and leads him to the dance floor.
They pass the girl with red hair who gives Wickham a shy smile.
Mary prepares to play and the men quickly take their places opposite their partners.
As the music starts, the ladies curtsy and the men bow.
A group of onlookers gather.
Mrs. Bennet turns to glare at her husband.
The men stand in one line with the ladies opposite them, then briefly touch hands as they move around the other dancers.
Mrs. Gardiner crosses the room and sees Charlotte and Jane sitting down.
Charlotte's busy chatting with someone, but Jane looks quietly upset.
Later, the girl with red hair is standing with Wickham as Charlotte and Lizzie look on.
Wickham smiles at Lizzie as he takes the girl's hand and leads her down through the column of dancers.
Lizzie smiles back at him,
then turns to look at Charlotte, who has a serious expression on her face.
Lizzie turns her attention back to the dance floor where the red haired girl is eyeing Wickham coyly.
Charlotte grabs Lizzie's arm.
Mary King continues to dance with Wickham, smiling contentedly.
Winter has arrived and the ground outside Longbourn is crisp with a white layer of frost.
Lizzie's reading a letter.
Jane walks out,
then she's sitting looking out of her window.
A carriage pulls up and Caroline gets out.
Caroline climbs back into her carriage and it sets off down the street.
Jane stares dolefully out of her window.
Back at Longbourn, Lizzie lowers her sister's letter with a pained expression.
It's a mild, sunny day and Lizzie is taking a walk in a field near Longbourn.
She wanders past post and rail fencing surrounding an old oak tree, idly toying with a leafy twig.
As she reaches the grounds of Longbourn, she tosses the twig away and wanders up the graveled driveway to the house.
She has a pensive, yet carefree air.
Her face framed by the straw brim of her gold-colored bonnet.
Lydia comes running out to meet her.
In the garden.
They continue on past the gardener, who's busily pruning a bush.
She casually reaches out to a branch above her head, and pulls off a leaf.
Indoors, Mr. Bennet is reading.
Hearing a noise from the hall, he looks up from his book to see trunks being moved,
and Lizzie standing in her coat and bonnet.
She comes in to see him.
She goes over to him,
and he takes a hand and kisses it.
He watches her leave with an endearing smile, then goes back to his book.
Lizzie is sharing her carriage with Maria and Sir William Lucas.
The horse-drawn carriage continues on past the green canopy of trees.
Eventually, it pulls through the gates and into the drive of a sizable, ivy-clad house.
Mr. Collins and Charlotte hurry out to meet them as Lizzie, Maria, and Sir William emerge from the cab.
Lizzie makes her way over to Charlotte.
He shows her into a room.
Charlotte and Lizzie are left alone again.
She takes Lizzie into the drawing room and walks over to the window.
Later, Lizzie is sitting reading in her room.
Maria rushes to look out to the window at a carriage that's arrived.
Later, the party is making its way up a wide path leading to a majestic mansion with elegantly manicured gardens.
Lady Catherine is holding court in her drawing room.
Sitting on an ornate, throne-like chair, she looks at Lizzie, who's squashed between Maria and Sir William on a sofa.
Lady Catherine raises one eyebrow and turns her attention to Charlotte.
As she turns to Lizzie, her smile fades and she glares fiercely.
Maria, Charlotte, and Lizzie are walking outside in the gardens.
In the house.
Darcy rises from his seat and comes to stand over Lizzie.
Darcy makes no effort to make any further inquiries.
He strides slowly and pointedly over to the window,
where he stands with his back to the room.
Lizzie looks at Fitzwilliam.
Darcy turns to look at her.
He smiles at her,
and Darcy turns back to the window, poker-faced.
It's a bright, sunny day.
The wooded green fields of the English countryside stretch out to the horizon.
Lizzie wanders alone, taking in the sumptuous view.
She idly pats the trunk of a large tree as she passes by.
Then, continues on under the shady canopy of leaves.
She takes her time staring up into the branches that shield her from the glare of the sun.
Darcy is riding his horse through the woods, a picture of elegance in his top hat and frock coat.
Spying Lizzie, he brings his horse to a halt, never once taking his eyes off her.
Lizzie stops.
Nonchalantly crossing her arms in front of her, she stares up defiantly at Darcy.
Looking awkward, Darcy kicks his horse on.
They set off down the avenue of trees at a trot.
Lizzie watches them not quite knowing what to make of the encounter.
Later, Fitzwilliam sits with Lizzie as she plays the piano.
In an adjoining room, Lady Catherine is listening.
Darcy, Charlotte, and Maria are sitting in a sofa near her.
Darcy goes in to join Lizzie and Fitzwilliam.
They share an intense gaze.
At the sound of the front doorbell, Lizzie sets down her pen,
gets up from the writing table,
and checks that her hair's straight.
The maid shows Darcy in.
He bows stiffly.
The maid curtsies and leaves the room.
Lizzie takes a seat.
A rather awkward silence ensues between them with neither quite able to look the other in the eye.
Eventually, Darcy pulls out a chair and sits down.
Crossing his legs and placing his top hat on his knee, he stares out of the window.
Awkwardness descends again.
They sit a few feet apart, seeming to take a particular interest in the carpet and walls of the drawing room.
Darcy gets up.
He heads for the door.
And in an instant, he's gone, leaving Lizzie with a somewhat perplexed expression.
Later, she's out taking a walk in the park, wearing an apricot day dress with matching overdress and bonnet.
She's carrying a letter.
He strides over to meet her, beaming.
They set off down the avenue of trees at an easy pace.
Lizzie stops, glancing up and down with an uneasy air.
They set off arm and arm.
Inside, Charlotte's helping Mr. Collins with his coat.
As they all disappear through the front door,
Lizzie shuts her eyes and breathes out with a sigh.
She wanders through the adjoining room, lost in thought.
The parsonage at Hunsford stands resplendent in the sunshine.
Inside, Lizzie is lying back on the sofa, reading a letter.
Hearing the front doorbell, she folds the letter back up,
rises from her seat, and stands in the center of the drawing room, prepared to greet any visitors.
Darcy is showed in again.
He strides right past her.
Lizzie walks over to a table in the corner of the room and takes a seat.
Darcy remains standing.
She waits patiently for him to continue.
Darcy takes a couple of steps forward, looking like he's about to say something.
Then seems to change his mind and returns to his original spot by the mantel piece.
Finally, he sets his top hat down on an occasional table and sit downs in the armchair next to it.
Again, Lizzie waits expectantly.
But Darcy gets up, strides awkwardly across the room,
then stops, staring at her with his hands folded behind him.
Lizzie averts her gaze.
Lizzie takes a moment to consider her response.
Darcy looks taken aback.
With furrowed brows and heavy walk, he returns to the mantel piece, putting a distance between them.
He takes a moment to compose himself, then turns to face her again.
With a curt bow,
Darcy turns and walks from the room.
As soon as the door has shut behind him,
Lizzie's composure deserts her and she takes long, deep breath to try and calm herself.
Words appear
Wearing black and white stripped uniforms, prisoners march in lockstep single file across the dirt.
Each man holding the shoulders of the man in front.
A prison guard in a dark blue overcoat squints at them as they pass.
Nearby, one prisoner lies motionless at another guard's feet.
The line of prisoners continues away from a wall feet high.
Guards on either side of them.
They march toward a stark building, where a smoke stack reaches into the sky.
On a dirt road populate by a few rundown establishments, a Nash sedan stops.
The driver's door opens and a tall man with bony features steps out wearing a badge.
He opens the back door and helps a raven-haired man in handcuffs step out.
Both wearing long overcoats, they walk across the street toward the prison.
At the middle of a long high wall, a metal entry gates sits under a lookout tower.
As they're near the entrance, the office gives the convict a little shove.
The metal gate opens.
Just inside, an older guard opens a steel door.
As the metal gate closes behind them, the two men passed the guard with no more than a nod from the arriving officer.
Inside the prison, inmate's central room filled with work benches, each with its own sewing machine.
A prisoner with graying temples lifts a box labeled Mayer Thread Company from a stack.
As he carries it across the room, he glances at a presiding guard.
With the slight length, the inmate brings the box passed another guard to a work bench.
Reaching the bench, he joins a sandy-haired prisoner and sets the box down.
They tear off the outer tape.
Sitting across from them, a younger inmate glances up.
The two men dig through large spools of white thread.
They each pulled out a gun, and using the spools to conceal them, passed them to the young inmate and a man sitting next to him.
They stealthily tucked the weapons in their pants.
From the same box, the older inmate and the sandy-haired man retrieved guns of their own.
Crossing between two rows of work benches, the sandy-haired man drops a load of shirts concealing his weapon and grabs one of the guards.
The younger inmate punches another guard in the face and holds his gun to his throat.
A stocky prisoner repeated strikes a guard with a pipe as the older inmate follows closely behind.
Each of the escaping prisoners leads their hostage to the door.
The rest of the befuddled inmates stand at their benches.
The younger inmate jabs his captive in the gut.
Now the newly arrived convict stands behind his presiding officer and another guard at a door.
He pops off his cuffs, pulls out a Tommy gun and bashes the guard.
The officer points his own shotgun through the barred door.
A guard quickly opens it, and they barge in just as the escapees force their captives into the room.
As the guards strip, Dillinger shakes hands with the older inmate.
Dillinger unlocks the steel door.
The stocky escapee faces a guard.
As Dillinger opens the door, the impersonating officer steps outside.
Dillinger shuts the door behind him.
Outside, Red leaves the metal gate behind and crosses the open ground towards the sedan.
He glances back to the lookout turret.
Inside Dillinger waits with his Tommy gun as the gang continues to dress.
One guard faces the stocky inmate.
He smashes the defiant law man with his pipe.
A guard reaches for the younger inmate's gun.
The younger inmate shoots him, which captures the rest of the room's attention.
Outside, Red walks backward yards from the gate.
Inside the criminals run out, leaving their hostages behind.
On the lookout turret, guards take aim.
Dillinger crosses through the metal gate, followed by his now partially dressed gang.
As the escapees race past him, Dillinger faces the entrance and fires his Tommy gun up at the watch tower.
One escapee gets shot despite a barrage of gun fire from Dillinger and his armed cohorts.
Walter hurries from the gate, still limping.
His sandy haired accomplice helps him along and fires back at the tower.
Inside the turret, a guard goes down.
As Walter reaches the getaway car, another guard fires a rifle.
Shot in the back, Walter collapses.
Standing on the running board, Dillinger grabs his arm as they drive away.
His body dragging across the dirt, Walter hangs onto Dillinger's arm, grimacing in pain.
Dillinger struggles to keep his grip while holding onto the moving car himself.
Walter looks up to his old friend and grins.
Then his hardened face goes blank.
His grip on Dillinger's forearm gives way, and the gang leader lets him go.
Walter's body slides to a stop in the dirt as the car drives off, leaving a cloud of dust behind.
Dillinger lingers for a moment and climbs into the back of the moving sedan.
As the sandy haired escapee shuts the door, Dillinger puts a handgun to Shouse's neck.
Red drives, sitting next to the younger escapee.
Dillinger lowers his handgun and punches Shouse in the face a couple of times.
He opens the car door and throws him out of the moving vehicle.
Shouse lands on the side of the road, face down in the grass.
Dillinger closes the sedan's door and sits back in his seat next to the sandy haired Pete.
Gathering himself, he sniffs, flaring his nostrils, and stares forward with a steely gaze.
Red peers out the smeared windshield with a solemn expression.
Dillinger stands below an overcast sky.
Strands of his greasy black hair hang over his forehead.
His gaze drifts to a road, which cuts through a desolate field toward the flat horizon.
In a farm house, gang members change clothes while eating.
A woman wraps food in newspapers and brings it over to their table.
Pete buttons up next to another escapee.
Red puts out a cigarette.
All of the men leave.
Outside, Dillinger walks alone.
Without his overcoat, he wears a black vest and a leather gun holster.
The woman stops him.
They hold eye contact and she lets go.
As Dillinger turns and walks away from the farm house, the woman continues to gaze after him.
A little boy in overalls comes up and takes her hand.
Together, they wander a few steps without taking their eyes off of him.
In the car, as Red drives, Dillinger looks back at Pete.
He faces forward and glances at Red.
A man in a blue suit hurries through lush green woods with a Tommy gun.
He trips, then climbs to his feet and runs on.
A clean-cut man wearing suspenders swiftly moves after him, toting a rifle.
A group of armed lawmen follow behind, charging up a hill.
The outlaw races downhill into an apple orchard.
At the hill's crest, the clean-cut lawman stops and watches the outlaw run between two rows of trees.
He aims his rifle.
Floyd runs backwards, firing wildly.
The lawman's shot misses.
Floyd runs on.
Calmly taking a knee, the lawman aims again, rubbing his finger on the trigger.
Floyd sprints through the trees, almost out of his pursuer's sight.
The lawman's finger engages a secondary trigger, then wraps around the main trigger.
The shot blasts through Floyd's belly and he flops on the grass.
The shooter gazes up from his sights, then stands and approaches the outlaw with the rest of the men following behind.
As the men arrive, Floyd takes out a pistol which the lawman kicks out of his hand.
He aims his rifle at the wounded outlaw, who lies on his back.
Purvis' piercing stare remains fixed on the dying man.
Blood gushes from Floyd's belly wound, saturating his white dress shirt.
His head falls back on the grass and his convulsing throat muscles come to rest.
The lawmen lower their weapons.
Purvis studies the dead outlaw then nods at his men.
Purvis slings his rifle strap over his shoulder.
His eyes and purses his lips.
The Nash sedan comes to a stop.
In a clean, white kitchen, a woman standing near the sink folds a newspaper.
Two other women sit at a table.
One writes, the other looks out the window.
A large man in suspenders peers through the blinds.
He turns away from the window and hurries out of the room.
Outside, Dillinger and his men step out of their car.
As they approach the house, a young blonde woman greets them.
He grins and gives the blonde a kiss.
They head inside.
Later, in a garage, Dillinger sits across from a gunsmith as he disassembles a Tommy gun.
He removes the trigger handle and pulls out a coil.
Outside a window behind the gunsmith, two cars arrive.
Red steps out of the safe house.
Dillinger glances at the door where the blonde nods to him.
He gets up and leaves the garage.
As he crosses to the house, Dillinger tosses a set of keys to Pete, who joins Red to see the new cars.
Inside, Dillinger enters the kitchen.
A man leans against the refrigerator.
Dillinger washes his hands.
A woman smokes at the table.
Dillinger hands him a stuffed envelope.
He goes around the table.
He kisses her cheek.
Dillinger leaves the kitchen.
Three men in fedoras and overcoats ascend a wide staircase, separated from each other by two center railings.
Reaching the top, Dillinger stops, scanning a huge bank with angular walls lined with pillars.
His two cohorts split off.
Pete approaches a guard.
He bashes his face and knees him in the gut.
Tommy gun in hand, Dillinger gracefully hurtles a counter and grabs a middle-aged man.
Ripping the back of his collar, Dillinger parades the bank president around the counter and across the floor.
They pass a trembling customer.
Dillinger pushes the president forward to a metal gate.
One of his men collects cash from a teller.
The president sorts keys.
Dillinger smacks him in the head with his pistol and points it in his face.
The president returns to the door.
A robber elbows open a teller cage.
The teller frantically gathers cash.
Pete hops up on the counter, aiming his machine gun.
Outside, Homer discreetly holds a rifle at his side.
He sees an arriving police car and backs into a recess by a set of double doors.
He knocks with the butt of his rifle.
Inside the bank, Dillinger waits as the president fills a sack with money from the safe.
In a getaway car, Red checks the time on a pocket watch, then drives away.
As policemen run across the street toward the bank, Red's car approaches and Homer casually glances over.
Inside, Dillinger pushes the president forward.
 He notices a few dollars in change set out on the counter and faces the customer it belongs to.
Outside, Homer bashes the cop with the butt of his rifle, uses him as a shield and fires.
Inside, a young female teller hurries to Dillinger and they head back down the stairs.
Outside Homer shoots up the police car another police car arrives down the block.
Red waits in his car as the robbers exit with four hostages.
Down the road, lawmen aim rifles over the car's hood.
Dillinger and his men, using their hostages as shields cross to the getaway car.
Dillinger aims at the police over the president's shoulder.
An officer fires first.
Homer aims his automatic rifle and with Dillinger, they shoot up the other police car, taking out a couple lawmen.
Their car speeds off with Dillinger and Homer on the running boards with their hostages.
As they drive down the street, the tails of the crook's overcoats flap in the breeze.
The car comes to a stop under a bridge.
Dillinger faces Homer's hostage.
The two hostages run off.
Dillinger notices his young hostage shivering.
He wraps his overcoat around her and guides her into the backseat.
Red drives off.
In the car, Dillinger hands the teller his hat.
The car heads down a dirt road leading toward a forest of leafless trees.
Homer sits next to the young teller.
Pete cracks up.
Now in the woods, they tie the president and the young teller to a tree.
The bank robbers leave their hostages and stride out of the trees.
Reaching their car, they get in and drive away.
Now, in a marble hearing room, a square jawed man faces a committee.
He tilts his ear toward the chairman.
The mustached senator looks Director Hoover in the eye.
Hoover whispers to a bespectacled man.
Hoover marches out with the bespectacled Suydam and a slender young man.
As they walk down a hall, Suydam takes notes.
Hoover looks to his young associate.
Now a fedora sits on a burgundy leather couch by Purvis, who gazes off thoughtfully.
As Hoover exits a nearby office, Purvis stands.
They cross an FBI bullpen.
The men step onto a sunny veranda, where reporters gather.
Hoover faces a microphone.
Hoover motions for Purvis to take his place at the mic.
Purvis squints decisively at the reporters.
Now at his supper club, Dillinger grins as he dines with his friends.
He checks his watch and looks toward the door.
Rubbing the tip of his nose, he shifts his gaze to the dance floor where a brunette in a red dress dances with a man.
Dillinger keeps his eyes fixed on her.
His attention shifts as a scrawny guy with glasses approaches.
Dillinger stands and shakes his hand.
The scrawny Alvin takes a seat beside Dillinger and leans close.
Alvin nods and heads off.
Pete and Homer swagger off.
Dillinger leans toward Red.
Red eyes the brunette in the red dress as she returns to her table.
Anna leads a young woman to Red.
Anna follows Red and Veronica as they stroll away, leaving Dillinger alone.
He stares at the brunette in the red dress, who laughs and beams.
The gang leader sips his drink and stands, keeping his eyes locked on the exotic woman.
He strides resolutely through the crowd and halts just behind her and leans onto her chair.
She looks up at him.
He gives his head a stunned shake.
Her bright red lips smile coyly.
She grins at the other women seated at her table, then sashays off with Dillinger.
He warily locks eyes with her, then looks away.
Billie leads the way to the dance floor.
He takes her hand and she places her other hand on his shoulder.
They sway together.
Billie smiles.
Dillinger gazes off shyly, then finds her lovely face.
Billie stares back defiantly.
Her dark eyes probe his as they sway with the music.
She allows a faint smile.
Dillinger summons up a breath and arches his brows.
Her smile broadens.
On stage, the songstress gazes out over the crowded dance floor.
Later Billie and Dillinger stride through the club's foyer.
Billie wrapping her crimson jacket tight around her body.
They step outside and she winces against a gust of wind.
Dillinger turns her to face him.
Dillinger drapes his overcoat over her shoulders.
She grins bashfully and continues down the sidewalk with his jacket and arm around her.
Later in an elegant restaurant, Billie uneasily scans her surroundings, then looks to Dillinger.
She smiles, then glances at a female diner.
The snobbish woman gives her the eye.
Billie's smile briefly falters.
He flashes an amused smile and sits back.
Dillinger breaks off, eyeing another table.
Billie and Dillinger lock gazes.
Under Billie's thick, dark eyelashes and graceful nose, a faint smile curls the corners of her lips.
Dillinger stands and holds her chair as she gets up, then guides her through the restaurant with a hand at her back.
Now they face a coat check counter.
At a bar, a stocky man with slicked back hair notices them.
Dillinger glances at the man over his shoulder, then leans toward Billie.
He steps away.
Billie irritably shifts her gaze, then glares at him and yanks on her coat.
She storms out.
The two men shake hands.
Nitti, a lean man with dark, slick hair and a handlebar mustache, slouches as he eats.
A short, husky man with olive skin and a toothbrush mustache approaches Dillinger.
They shake hands.
D'Andrea leaves.
Dillinger swaps looks with Gilbert, then shoves through a revolving door.
Outside he finds only a wealthy couple and uniformed doorman.
The gang leader glances around the sidewalk with a frown, then faces the doorman.
Dillinger frowns.
Now, a hood ornament of an archer gleams on Purvis' pierce arrow.
In an FBI field office, a chubby agent shows a jacket.
Purvis paces, then addresses his assembled task force.
He faces a secretary.
Purvis gazes out a window at a neighboring high rise, then faces his men.
One agent briefly drops his gaze.
Now in a telephone exchange with Baum, he plays a record.
Night time.
Dillinger strides past a bright city park.
Later, he marches through a crowded arch vaulted lobby.
He finds Billie behind a hatcheck counter.
She notices Dillinger as a male guest holds out his coat to her.
Dillinger smacks the back of the bystander's head.
As the man doubles over, the crime boss flips open the counter's pass-through and steps into Billie's work area.
Yanking the man's wrist over the counter, Dillinger snatches his claim ticket.
Billie stares as he finds the man's coat.
The exotic beauty drops her gaze and Dillinger throws the coat at its owner.
He gets Billie's coat.
He holds her coat open.
Billie eyes it, then looks to a staring co-worker.
With a coy smirk, she steps out from behind the counter and slips into her coat.
Now, in an apartment, a hand drops a rabbit's foot key chain by a tabletop sculpture of two racing greyhounds.
Dillinger leads Billie down a hall into a luxurious living room.
As she takes in the space, he sets a chair near a sofa and looks to her.
Billie joins him, slipping off her coat.
Dillinger sets a simple cardboard box on the coffee table.
Billie complies and looks around with a faint smile.
Behind her, Red appears in his undershirt, and leans through an open air interior window.
He gets couple of glasses from a counter, then saunters off with two women.
Dillinger sits facing Billie and lays his hand on the large box.
The exotic beauty eyes it coolly.
Dillinger allows a subdued smile, then shifts boyishly in his seat.
Billie removes the lid, finding forest green tissue paper over the contents.
Folding back the layers, she finds a camel haired coat with a thick fur collar.
Billie lifts the present from its box, staring at it.
She swallows, then raises her tender gaze to meet Dillinger's.
Her full lips curl into a smile.
The crime boss grins.
They gaze into each other's eyes.
Later, on a bed, they smother each other with kisses.
Silhouetted against a window, Billie leans over the reclined man, her bobbed hair tickling his brow.
Dillinger wriggles his opened pants downward.
Billie, kneeling over him, unfastens her dress.
She pulls it off over her head, revealing a silvery blue slip, then leans over on top of Dillinger.
Glimpses of Dillinger thrusting into Billie from behind, interspersed with their nuzzling face to face.
A recent flashback shows them arriving ecstatically.
Another flash shows Dillinger kiss her mouth.
His face withdraws down her chest.
Later, as they cuddle, they share a warm smile.
Later still, Billie strolls in her slip to a window.
Open suitcases occupy every inch, filled to the brim with neatly packed clothes.
Billie caresses their contents, then rejoins Dillinger in bed.
She lays her head on his shoulder.
Rolling over to face her, he strokes her cheek and neck.
His thumb gently rubs her graceful jaw line.
His gaze pours over her face.
He grins.
Billie gazes dreamily at him.
He gives her another smile.
His thumb caresses her cheek in a gentle rhythm.
He flashes a puckish grin.
At the telephone exchange, Baum stands with a listening piece to his ear and a hand-held mike at his lips.
Later, the Pierce-Arrow pulls up to a curb.
Purvis drives with Baum at his side.
Two other G-men approach the luxury car.
One of the street agents looks to his young partner, who bows his hat.
Purvis faces Baum.
He points, then gets out and faces the young G-man.
Purvis leads them across the street towards a building.
Inside, they enter a long, dim hallway.
Purvis leads Agent Barton to a door, then readies his hand on his gun.
We watch the agents from afar as they prepare, dwarfing their trench-coated forms.
Purvis lifts his knuckles to the door.
It opens, revealing a young demure house dressed.
Her strawberry blonde hair frames her face in a curly bob.
Purvis steps toward the doorway.
As he enters, Barton lingers in the hall.
At a table, a stout man eats.
The baby-faced man nods.
She steps away.
Returning, the woman shows off her shoes.
She holds out the opened wallet as well.
Purvis eyes it and gives a nod.
Purvis leaves, shutting the door.
The woman looks wearily to the stout gentleman at the dining table.
Now Purvis and Barton enter a stairwell.
Purvis hurries downstairs.
Rushing from the building, he runs across the street to agent Baum.
In the stairwell, Barton peers through a window in the door.
Squinting, he steps into the hallway and lets the door swing shut behind him.
From the stairwell, our gaze lingers on the door, then drifts over to a set of elevators.
One of them opens, revealing a tall man with rugged features.
He steps off and heads for the door.
In the hallway, Barton sees the rugged man behind him.
The stranger stops.
Behind Barton, the stout, baby-faced man steps into the hall and shoots him.
The G-man lurches and falls.
In the street, Purvis turns.
The shooter and his rugged associate leave.
Outside, Purvis races toward the building.
Baum whips out his gun, then peers at a car parked in the alley.
Inside, Purvis enters the hallway and raises his gun.
He advances cautiously.
Purvis stops, looking down.
Glancing whirly ahead, he crouches.
Purvis' mouth drops open as he stares downward.
On the floor, a blood pool spreads beneath Barton.
As the wounded man twitches feebly, Purvis watches with a clenched jaw.
His expression grows solemn.
He glares down the hall.
He rises, leaving a lifeless Barton.
Outside, Baum sees two men hurrying down the alley steps.
The baby-faced shooter raises a Tommy gun.
The G-man ducks behind a wall as bullets pepper its surface.
Scrambling out, he takes cover behind a garden planter.
As the two criminals get into the parked car, Baum pops up and returns fire.
The car pulls away.
Back indoors, Purvis bursts into the apartment.
He ignores the panic maul and leans out an open window.
As the car below quits the alley, Purvis shoots, then hurries out of the apartment.
Outside, two agents pull their car up as their superior exits the building.
Purvis stops, staring with his mouth agape.
The agent shifts his rueful gaze.
With a slow, deliberate stride, Purvis steps closer to his men.
Purvis' frustrated gaze scans the agents.
His breath puffing visibly in the night air, he steps away.
A bank's doors open.
Three men in long coats enter.
Our gaze drifts up to find Pete between Dillinger and a heavyset thug.
The two leaner men split off together.
Pete encounters a guard, sucker punches him, and bangs his head against the counter.
Without breaking his stride, Dillinger draws a gun in each hand.
The bankers all obey.
Pete shifts his aim.
A banker leads Dillinger to a vault.
Now in his office, Hoover talks on the phone.
Hoover shifts his resentful gaze and works his jaw.
In Chicago, Purvis grimly lowers the phone, then shifts his troubled gaze.
A locomotive pulls into a station.
Puffs of brake steam blast the unfazed travelers and workers on the platform.
The heavy wheels slow to a halt.
An older, smartly dressed man with wizened features disembarks flanked by two associates.
He peers down the platform through beady eyes.
The three newcomers make their way down the platform, suitcases in hand.
Travelers mill about on the vast terminal's marble floors.
The three arriving men pause, taking in their surroundings.
Now at a shoeshine stand.
The older newcomer takes a seat.
Purvis approaches.
Horses barrel down a racetrack, jockeys crouched on their backs.
An announcer watches from a tower.
Onlookers crowd the rails.
Among them, Billie grins, Dillinger beside her.
In cheers, the horses race shoulder to shoulder.
Later, outside the racetrack, Nitti and D'Andrea sit by a patio table by a grassy crowd.
Nitti summons a breath, squinting in the sunlight.
D'Andrea waves at Dillinger across the crowd.
D'Andrea glances around.
Later, Dillinger plumps into a chair in the grandstand.
Billie sits beside him.
One row down, Pete leans closer.
Homer listens too.
Homer speaks up.
Dillinger faces his girlfriend, who glares at him, then drops her gaze.
D'Andrea joins him.
D'Andrea leaves.
Billie stares off.
Dillinger frowns, shifts in his seat, and squarely faces Billie.
She hangs her head.
Billie allows a thoughtful smile.
Leaning forward, she cups the back of Dillinger's head in her hand, and presses her lips to his.
He pulls away, gazing into her eyes, and kisses her again.
Spectators stand and cheer on the race.
Now in a town, a brambly bush grows by a biro cactus and a healthy saguaro.
Billie and Dillinger enter the lobby and stroll toward the front desk.
A balding clerk faces them.
The clerk hands Dillinger a pen.
The gang leader signs a guest register.
Dillinger picks up a suitcase and heads off with Billie.
Now in a hotel room, he opens the suitcase, takes out his Tommy gun and cocks it.
Later, he opens a window and pulls the sheer curtains closed.
The gang leader takes off his suit coat and handgun, and ambles to a set of closed double doors.
Pushing one open, he peeks into a bathroom.
Billie sits nude in the tub.
As he opens the door all the way, she seductively slides her hands up the porcelain out of the water, then lifts one shapely leg and caresses the tub's rim with her foot.
She runs her toes along a soap dish.
As Johnny turns back to the bedroom, the door bursts open.
The balding man from the front desk leads other men in and clouds Dillinger with the butt of a rifle.
As another lawman handcuffs him, Billie runs out wearing a towel.
Later, the lawmen lead Dillinger into a jail as more officers escort Pete and the heavyset bank robber.
Pete struggles as his captors lead him away from his boss.
A lawman shuts a door, showing an isolated cellblock.
Inside, the officers lock Dillinger inside a holding cell and remove his handcuffs through the bars.
Wearing cowboy hats, the officers head out.
Dillinger massages his wrists, gazing off.
He paces forward and leans tensely on a rail attaching the cell bars one to the next.
Balding undercover officer knocks on the cellblock door.
In his cell, Dillinger flips through a magazine.
He looks up.
The balding officer leads Purvis into the cellblock.
Other lawmen observe from a side table.
Wearing a crisp suit, Purvis faces Dillinger's cell.
The gang leader sets down his magazine.
He stands and ambles toward the bars.
The two men size each other up.
Dillinger curiously cocks his head.
Purvis stares at him calmly.
The other officers and agents watch closely.
Dillinger's eyes flip up and down the stoic G-man.
Dillinger shakes his head, his brow knit.
Blinking furtively, Purvis allows a faint smile.
Dillinger straightens to his full height.
Chewing some gum, the criminal gives a cocky smile.
Purvis pauses on his way out and faces Dillinger.
Sunlight outlines Purvis' clean-shaven face.
Dillinger follows Purvis from inside his cell.
Both men walk with their hands in their pockets.
Inspecting Dillinger, Purvis barely slows his leisurely stride, then leaves with his agents.
The balding officer stays behind.
Dillinger chews his gum.
A three-propeller plane cruises through the sky, it's curved, boxy underbelly hanging below thick wings.
A chevron-shaped windshield juts behind the nose.
Six windows serve like skylights over the cockpit.
Later, the plane descends toward a rainy airfield.
On board, Dillinger jostles in his seat as the plane touches down.
Outside, the plane taxies past distant hangars.
Near one, a man lights a flare and holds it aloft, illuminating a vast crowd.
Two journalists crank movie cameras.
A black and white view through one shows a police officer waiting as Dillinger's plane moves closer.
Other journalists wait with flashbulb cameras.
Three lawmen hold rifles at the ready.
A gleam in the flare's light.
The plane taxies to a stop.
Lawmen debark a car.
Another flare goes up.
Wind whips two trench-coated lawmen as they escort a shackled Dillinger across the tarmac.
Flashbulbs pop.
Wearing a button-down shirt and open vest, Dillinger stumbles forward, jostled by his retinue of armed men.
His wet bangs dangle over his face.
A plume of smoke from a glowing flare billows crookedly in the wind.
Another view through a movie camera shows the lawmen lead Dillinger though the haze.
More flashbulbs pop as the men reach a Sedan with a sleek bird-winged hood ornament.
Dillinger gets shoved into the back seat.
A jerky hand-held view shows a gunman climb in next to him.
In front of them, two policemen stand on a car's running boards as it starts off.
Other officers on motorbikes accompany.
Inside the prisoner's car, Dillinger slouches, his head bobbing.
Passing lights gleam on the car's polished black hood.
Seated between two of his captors, Dillinger keeps his pensive gaze aimed downward.
Five cars follow the motorcyclists along a dim street.
In Dillinger's car, the criminal stares off glumly, then smiles out the window.
Dozens of civilians line the street, cheering.
The gang leader raises his shackled hands and waves.
A young man rushes toward the window.
Dillinger's eyes gleam as other fans wave excitedly.
He gives a coy, half smile.
Later, the convoy drives onto a bridge, passing a set of raised barricades.
Now, in a courthouse, a deputy shoves his way through a crowd of journalists, toward a counter.
Behind the counter, a plainly dressed woman paces in an office.
She strides out to the crowd.
As arriving lawmen lead Dillinger inside, cameras flash.
The robber skeptically furrows his brow.
An officer unlocks Dillinger's wrist restraints.
A chubby lawyer puts an arm around Dillinger who rests an elbow on the man's shoulder.
The female sheriff glowers.
Dillinger shrugs his brows.
Dillinger swaggers off, escorted by deputies.
Later, a guard unlocks a cellblock door and a deputy guides a portly lawyer inside.
The lawyer nonchalantly follows a second guard farther ahead.
Now, a hulking black inmate strides past a row of cells and enters a common room where Dillinger reads a newspaper.
The hulking man leans to Dillinger's ear.
Dillinger scowls toward his cell then heads over.
The hulking inmate positions himself just outside.
He waves two prisoners on.
Now, Dillinger faces the bars in the back of his cell.
The lawyer, Piquett, sits in a corridor on the other side.
Piquett sits back and heaves a misty sigh in the cold air.
In a courtroom, Piquett sits at a counsel bench.
A deputy escorts Dillinger in, in shackles.
Piquett faces the deputy.
The judge folds his hands thoughtfully.
Bob turns away with a humorless look.
As the crowd rises, Dillinger winks at Piquett.
The lawyer steps away.
As the deputy approaches, Dillinger lowers his gaze.
Later, outside the jail, a cluster of National Guardsmen stand watch by a waste high wall of sandbags.
Inside, the prisoners mill about the common room.
As a few deputies and guards work in a front office, a janitor enters.
Later, he hangs up his coat.
A guard unlocks a barred door then raises his baton to a second metal door just inside.
The guard looks through a peephole then unlocks the door for the janitor.
Carrying a mop and bucket, he crosses a hallway and waits for another guard to open another barred door.
In the common room, Dillinger tilts his head and clenches his jaw.
The janitor enters and the guard shuts the door behind him.
Dillinger coolly glances over his shoulder.
The janitor sets down his supplies and heads over.
Dillinger grabs Cahoon by the back of his jacket and points an odd, waxy gun at his head.
He pushes Cahoon toward the door and the hulking inmate follows close behind.
Dillinger hides against a wall.
Cahoon peaks through the bars.
As the guard opens the door, Dillinger pushes Cahoon away and slams Brian into the wall.
The hulking inmate covers Cahoon's mouth.
Dillinger spins Brian to the next door, pointing the waxy weapon at his back.
Brian refuses.
Dillinger pokes Brian with the gun.
He shoves Brian to his hulking accomplice, who still restrains Cahoon.
Dillinger eyes the door.
He kicks it open and hits the guard in the face.
Max tumbles down a flight of stairs with Dillinger close behind.
His accomplice holds a pipe in his raised hand as he pushes Brian behind Dillinger.
Using Max's keys, Dillinger opens the next barred door then forces Max to stand in front of a metal door.
The guard on the other side peeks through then unlocks it.
As he opens the door, Dillinger shoves him into Max and his accomplice hits Brian with his pipe.
Dillinger rushes into the office and holds his gun to the warden's neck.
He pushes the warden into the hall while his accomplice restrains a deputy.
As Dillinger jams the barrel of his gun into the warden's neck, the warden spins the dial on a safe door.
Dillinger steps into the closet sized safe, discards his fake, waxy gun and grabs a pistol from the wall.
He steps out with a rifle and hands a machine gun to his accomplice.
The warden glances back as the accomplice leads him away.
Dillinger grabs a hat and coat from a nearby rack.
He puts them on and tosses a jacket to the other inmate who grabs a hat from the rack as he ushers the deputy out behind Dillinger.
With his rifle raised, Dillinger cautiously opens a metal door in the hallway.
His accomplice follows close behind with one hand clutching the deputy between them.
They make their way into a garage where a mechanic works on a police car.
Dillinger reaches into one of the cars and rips out its ignition wires.
He strides to the Ford VOutside, four officers talk to each other on a porch, their guns perched casually against their shoulders.
The sleek Ford passes undetected in the alley beside them.
At the front of the jailhouse, the National Guardsmen mill about by their sandbag wall.
As Dillinger drives through the town, he nervously shifts his eyes back under the tipped down brim of his fedora.
The jailhouse mechanic sits beside him while his accomplice rides in back with the deputy.
Dillinger notices three National Guardsmen strolling down the sidewalk.
He stops for a red traffic light on a corner where more National Guardsmen stand together talking, their guns strapped over their shoulders.
They glance curiously at the car then resume their conversation.
In the backseat, the hulking escapee's chest heaves as he stares fixedly at the red light.
Dillinger licks his lips, his head bowed slightly.
He reaches his left hand toward the gun nestled in his waistband.
The light changes to green and Dillinger puts the car in gear.
He glances over his shoulder as he turns on to another street.
The escapee looks behind them.
With a smirk, Dillinger shifts gears.
The Ford speeds away from town as Young blood keeps watch out the rear windshield.
Now, the car cruises beside a field.
Dillinger looks at the mechanic.
He shakes his head light-heartedly.
The befuddled mechanic shakes his head.
During an interview.
Elsewhere, Hoover listens on the radio.
He pinches the bridge of his nose.
Now at her apartment, Billie sits in a chair, her hands fidgeting anxiously.
She rushes to the telephone and leans against a wall as she holds the receiver to her ear.
At the telephone exchange, Baum listens.
Billie clutches the phone despondently.
She lowers her sad, resigned eyes.
Dillinger stands inside a phone booth with a faint, tender smile.
Billie removes the receiver from her ear and clutches it against the base of her neck, resting her chin on her knuckles.
Outside her apartment, two men watch from inside a car concealed underneath a bridge.
Later, Purvis sits in a car outside the apartment.
Baum climbs into the passenger seat and hands him a file with a transcript from Dillinger's phone call to Billie.
Behind them, an el train glides across a bridge, its interior lights glowing in the darkness.
A tan car pulls to a stop and Dillinger and Red climb out.
As Dillinger heads around the corner, down an icy walkway, Sport steps out of the safe house.
Red perches on the side of the car, his gun raised.
Marty emerges from the house, behind Sport.
Dillinger narrows his eyes and tilts his head.
He pulls out his machinegun.
Inside, a man waits by the doorway with a gun at the ready.
Outside, Red aims his gun at the house.
Later, Dillinger and Red burst into a cigar shop.
Red grabs two customers.
Gilbert stands behind one of the counters.
Dillinger gives Gilbert a hard look.
Gilbert leads Dillinger and Red upstairs to a dimly lit room.
Dillinger takes in the chalkboard covered walls and the rows of men at desks chattering on telephones.
Small overhead lights with green lampshades hang from above next to dangling clusters of phone wires.
D'Andrea sits on the corner of the desk.
He looks at Gilbert.
A blonde man gestures for Dillinger to raise his arms.
Dillinger lifts his hands.
As the blonde man draws closer, Dillinger grabs him in a chokehold and aims a gun at Gilbert.
He cocks his head.
D'Andrea looks at Gilbert whose hand rests on his gun.
He turns to Dillinger and Red.
Dillinger tosses the blonde man away.
D'Andrea sits calmly on the edge of a desk.
Dillinger holsters his gun.
Dillinger knits his brow thoughtfully then meets D'Andrea's gaze.
D'Andrea shrugs.
Dillinger glares at D'Andrea, his lips curved into a frown.
The mustached gangster leans in closer.
Dillinger tilts his head, his eyes narrowing as he meets D'Andrea's gaze.
He turns away.
Dillinger and Red exit.
Now, Hoover and Purvis walk down a hall.
Outside, Hoover turns from Purvis and heads over to a group of well-dressed boys standing in two lines.
They shake hands.
Hoover faces the press.
In a movie theatre, the event plays on a newsreel.
Dillinger talks to the rugged gangster.
Dillinger nods his head at Shouse.
A photo of Dillinger appears onscreen.
Dillinger subtly covers his face.
Shouse stands and Red yanks him back into his seat.
Homer looks away nervously.
As Dillinger sits with a worried look, his face tilted down, the overhead light turns on, bathing the audience member's faces.
The audience turns, peering at the people to the right.
The audience turns again.
As the audience members settle their eyes back toward the front, the lights fade down and a new story begins.
Tommy turns to Dillinger.
Dillinger rubs his lips thoughtfully as he looks at Tommy and nods.
He exchanges a glance with Red and they rise, grabbing their coats.
A few rows ahead, Homer puts on his hat and steps into the aisle behind them.
As they exit the theater, Red moves closer to Dillinger.
People mill around a town square.
A stiff wind flutters the awnings of a storefront.
On the far side of the square, a policeman pulls up on a motorcycle.
Inside a bank, Baby Face stands on a table and fires his gun through a window at the policeman.
He fires at the ceiling.
Outside, Homer grabs a man and holds him hostage.
Inside, Dillinger and Tommy exchange an exasperated look.
From inside a vault, Dillinger tosses a bag to Tommy.
He guides the bank president by the shoulder.
A woman joins the bank president.
The gangsters shield themselves with the hostages as they exit the bank.
They pass Homer, who waits outside by their car with his own hostage.
Baby Face fires wildly into the town square.
Two men dive to the ground.
From a window across the street, a man aims a gun.
Dillinger lurches forward, his eyes wide.
He drops to a seated position, his gun still raised, then notices Tommy who lies on his stomach in a pool of blood.
As Red and Homer return fire, Baby Face shoots at a townsman who holds a pistol at his side.
Dillinger crawls to the dead gangster.
He looks sadly at Tommy then turns his attention back to the fight.
As Baby Face raises his gun to fire again, a guy jumps on his back.
Baby Face tosses him into a window.
Dillinger joins the others, firing at the second story window across the street.
Dust billows around it as bullets hit the exterior stone wall.
Red glances over his shoulder.
Dillinger reloads his gun and fires it at a man hiding behind a car.
He hurries to Baby Face.
He drags Baby Face, who continues to shoot.
With its door still open, the car pulls out of the town square, leaving the hostages lying helplessly in the street.
The car speeds down an empty road lines with tall evergreens that jut into the pale blue sky.
Golden sunlight shines on its sleek exterior, reflecting the snow covered ground bordering the woods.
Dillinger sits in the backseat, the wind from the open windows blowing against his disheveled hair.
In the front passenger seat, Homer stares distantly.
Behind him, Dillinger drinks from a flask as Red administers an injection into his shoulder wound.
Night time.
The cars headlights glow eerily through the trees as it makes its way through the dark woods.
The night casts a turquoise hue over Dillinger who clutches his shoulder in the backseat.
The car slows as it approaches a lodge where light shines warmly through the windows.
As Baby Face pulls the car to a halt, Dillinger addresses him with a frown.
The four gangsters enter the lodge.
Upstairs, Baby Face bundles cash.
As Red preps a dressing, Homer looks on.
Red unrolls a bandage and dresses Dillinger's wound.
Homer grabs his take.
Baby Face picks up two cash bundles and tosses one to Shouse.
As they both clear out of the room, Homer hangs by in the doorway.
He looks to Dillinger.
The leader gives a nod and Homer leaves.
Red remains seated at Dillinger's side.
As Red wipes his hands, Dillinger springs restlessly to his feet.
The two men share a solemn look.
He holds out Red's share.
Red accepts the cash, gives his brow a resigned lift and shoots a tentative smile at Dillinger.
He stows the cash in his bag and leaves.
Now in a medical exam room, the gangster with the eye wound pleads with two G-men.
Purvis halts a doctor.
Purvis courteously gestures for the doctor to step away.
The interrogator pushes on the man's wound.
Purvis stands with his back to the torture session.
The gangster spits at his tormentor.
The stern faced G-man turns gravely towards Purvis and nods.
Purvis's beady eyes peer downward, deep in thought.
Later, Purvis uses a candlestick phone.
On the other end, a boyish agent, Sam Cowley, nods, hangs up, and grabs some maps.
As Sam's team arms up, Purvis and his armed peers board a prop plane on an airfield.
Now, under a dim table lamp, a hand turns on a boxy radio.
He lies down on a modest twin bed.
Dillinger picks up his pocket watch off the nightstand, opens it and admires a photo of Billie on the inside of the cover.
Dillinger's profile grows blurry as the view focuses on the radio beyond.
Now, on a forest road, two motorcars douse their headlights as they creep forward and park on the dirt shoulder.
Purvis, Winstead, and several others in trench coats climb out of the vehicles.
Purvis closes his door most of the way but leaves it cracked open.
The men advance.
Armed with their rifles and sub machineguns, the G-men cross the shadowy woods.
Purvis and Winstead stand shoulder to shoulder as they spot the lodge a few hundred yards off.
Purvis looks Winstead in the eye.
The partner G-men filter outwards through the trees toward the lodge.
Inside a warmly lit barroom.
Outside, Purvis passes in and out of light as he treads forward.
Toting a rifle, Baum comes up on his left.
Meanwhile, Winstead rounds past a tree.
Inside, Baby Face approaches a couple eating dinner.
He pats a guy on a barstool then faces the couple.
Outside, Purvis spies a window framing a view of two women, a tuxedoed man and a fourth person drinking and smoking inside.
As he stalks closer, the tree working class men exit the lodge.
Purvis watches them closely from behind a tree.
Inside Dillinger's room, a framed religious icon hangs on the wall over his bed as he rests.
Outside, the car backs up.
Purvis aims his Tommy gun.
The car starts forward.
Purvis and two of his peers open fire.
The shots knock out the headlights and riddle the car from top to bottom with holes.
Inside, Dillinger springs awake.
Grabs his Tommy gun and goes to a window.
In the barroom Baby Face returns fire through a window, as does Dillinger from the second story.
As mussel flashes light up the night, indoors and out, Winstead carefully lines up a rifle shot from the base of a tree.
Now in Dillinger's room, Wedge joins the shootout.
As Purvis sprints for a tree closer to the disabled car, Baby Face unleashes a barrage of fire from a barroom window.
Purvis takes cover and reloads.
As he makes a run for the car, shells fires from the launch.
Outside, Purvis sees the car's lifeless occupants.
One man sits splotch on, his head long back, trailing blood from two holes.
Purvis stares, stunned, then opens a rear door.
It's the G-men and gangster skirmishing.
Homer runs the length of the barroom to a far window.
John hustles down stairs, carrying two Tommy guns.
He hands one to Baby Face and joins him at the barroom windows.
Liquor bottles on the barroom wall explode.
Upstairs Red and Johnny duck aside of their shattered windows and re-open fire.
Agent Winstead takes his shots.
The wall chips above a guest room mirror.
Purvis fires from behind the disabled car and peppers the plaster walls of Dillinger's room.
We crouch between the gangsters in the second story guest room.
Our jerky view pivots from right to Dillinger.
Outside FBI gunfire sprays a balcony.
An adjacent window shows a gangster taking aim.
The G-men resume firing.
Agent Rice takes a shot in the leg.
As Red delivers covering fire, Dillinger hustles to a guest room next store and butts a window with his gun.
Dillinger and Red escape onto a rooftop and hop down to a dark yard at the other side of the launch.
Now, in the barroom, a jerky close-up follows Baby Face, who backs up to a side door.
Outside it opens and Baby Face fires towards the car.
His shots send up clouds of dirt but Purvis returns fire through the dust.
His shots splinter through the door.
Inside Baby Face flees past Homer and leaps through a bay window!
As he runs off, Agent Pleg sees the criminal escaping.
Purvis eyes Baum.
Baum heads off.
As Purvis shoots the side door, Homer fires back.
Now, Baum dashes past Agents Clegg and Madala on his way to intercept the fugitive.
Elsewhere, Dillinger and Red make their own escape through the woods.
Winstead spots them.
But they fail to notice him.
Winstead and his partner move out in pursuit.
Now racing along a forested hillside, Red stays close behind Dillinger.
A cloth sack dangles from Red's grip as both men hurry past a narrowed outcropping.
Winstead and Hurt appear on the trail.
As Dillinger and Red pass a misty overlook, the agents reach a stand of twin trees and split up.
Hurt takes to higher ground while Winstead advances on the trail.
A view through the leafy canopy shows the criminals scurrying off.
Winstead pitches his hat, sights the man, and fires.
Dillinger retaliates.
As Winstead dives into a roll, Dillinger's gun empties.
Winstead kneels and opens fire.
Red takes cover behind a tree.
Dillinger does the same.
Winstead's shots clobber the trunk shielding Dillinger, who calmly reloads.
His breath mists in the cold, night air.
He leans out and fires.
Dillinger scans the hillside but finds no sign of anyone.
Red peers over his shoulder from his tree.
Dillinger relaxes his aim.
Both men start off.
Winstead lies low behind a tree.
Slow motion, the criminals run along the misty overlook, with Red leading the way.
Agent Hurt opens fire from uphill.
Red goes down.
Dillinger urges Red to his feet.
They move on.
Behind them, Winstead resumes tracking the pair.
Dillinger accosts an average man standing outside a cabin.
Later, Red clutches his side.
Dillinger opens the heisted car's door for him.
Baby Face reaches an unpaved road.
Headed his way in a car, Baum peers ahead, over the steering wheel.
Baby Face turns his back to the vehicle as its glaring headlights draw closer.
The fugitive waves a hand low, paces backward, and keeps his Tommy gun under his coat.
Baum stops.
Baum climbs out the other door.
Baby Face throws him down.
Baby Face tosses Baum's Tommy gun onto the front seat and gets behind the wheel.
Purvis comes running through the forest.
As Baum's car drives off, Purvis finds his fallen partner.
The lead agent doffs his hat and crouches down to his fading colleague.
Purvis glares after the car riding steadily away.
Purvis moves out.
Agent Madala follows, hesitating as he spots Baum's body.
Now on the dirt road, Purvis aims loosely at an oncoming car holding his han gun
while holding up one hand.
It's Cowley's team.
Cowley pulls a Purvis rides outside the vehicle, on the passenger side running board, armed with his Tommy gun.
Baby Face comes upon Homer and Shouse, who aim their guns at the Ford.
Cowley's speeding car takes a tight turn.
Purvis scowls into the night as the car follows another curve.
Their headlights reveal a dip in the road, then the stolen Ford climbing the rise farther ahead.
Purvis fires.
Homer returns fire.
Baby Face swerves to avoid incoming shots.
Purvis fires relentlessly from Cowley's car as it gains on Baby Face.
Homer loads his next round.
A curve in the road gives Purvis an angled shot.
As Shouse nervously wipes his nose, Purvis tags the Ford's hood.
The Ford careens into a field and rolls twice before settling on its tires.
Shouse's lifeless face leans on the cracked windshield.
Homer leaves Baby Face stuck behind the jammed front door.
The paunchy gangster kicks it out.
Purvis arrives and riddles Homer with bullets.
Puffs of redness erupt repeatedly from the gangster's chest.
Making an escape, Baby Face nails Cowley.
Purvis takes aim with a pistol.
But Agent Madala fires a shotgun first.
Purvis follows up with shots of his own.
The paunchy gangster goes down.
Baby Face half recovers, getting to his knees, and discharges Tommy rounds.
Purvis empties his pistol into the man.
Baby Face drops onto his back.
A plume of exhaled steam jets from his nose, once.
Purvis glares over his aimed pistol.
Outside a small-town pharmacy, Dillinger returns to the heisted car.
Red leans, sweating and bloody, in the corner of the back seat.
Dillinger pours antiseptic over Red's wounded abdomen.
Dillinger fusses with other supplies.
He applies gauze to the wound.
Red trains his puffy, exhausted eyes on Dillinger.
A feeble smile on Red's lips fades.
Dillinger slumps a little, then sits back.
His blood-stained hand lets go of Red's shoulder.
Eyes downcast, Dillinger stays seated by his deceased partner.
He swallows, glancing at Red.
His lips give a brief, irritated sneer.
He gazes downward.
In a field office, Purvis faces his agents.
Night time.
On a city street, a scowling Dillinger drives past a parked car, which reflects electrical flashes from a passing train.
Two agents sit in the parked vehicle.
One, a burly man with a Roman nose, peers at an apartment building across the street.
His partner sleeps.
In the apartment, a seated Billie checks her watch, then turns up a radio.
Windows behind her show the passing train.
Billie crosses the roomy, run-down apartment, then doubles back to a door.
A woman with similar short hair comes down a staircase, hands Billie a large, brown paper bag, and follows her into the apartment.
As Billie dons her fur-collared coat, the newcomer takes Billie's seat by the radio.
The woman wears a top similar to Billie's.
As she skims a newspaper and turns up the radio, another elevated train passes in the windows.
In the car, both G-men watch the apartment.
In another car, two more agents see someone in an overcoat and fedora toting a paper bag across a dark alley.
The stranger ducks down a narrow passage and reaches out with a delicate hand to a brick wall.
It's Billie in disguise.
She comes to a street on the other end.
Carrying the brown paper bag, she steps off the sidewalk between parked cars and looks around in the middle of the street.
A car's headlights illuminate and shine on her anxious face.
Situated about a block away, the car approaches and comes to a stop.
Billie hops in next to Dillinger, who chews gum and smiles.
Billie takes off the hat, kisses his cheek, and holds him.
Dillinger drives off.
Billie rests her head on his shoulder.
In the field office, Purvis and his agents listen to Madala.
The agents abruptly gaze out the door.
Purvis steps forward, arms folded across his chest.
In the outer office, the solemn, burly agent stands with his partner.
As Purvis gazes at them, his eyes water.
He works his lips.
Nitti listens to the radio.
Nitti phones D'Andrea.
Cardboard tags label switchboard cables at the telephone exchange.
As an agent stands by, two female operators work an adjacent switchboard.
Outside, on a moonlit shoreline, Dillinger sits by a sleeping Billie.
Her hair hangs in her face.
Dillinger gazes at her and brushes her dark hair aside to reveal her big eyes.
She briefly lowers her gaze.
She smiles.
He takes her in his arm.
Beyond them, the horizon sprawls perfectly flat between the sand and black sky.
Dillinger's car parks on a street.
Billie smiles at him and gets out of the car.
Peering through his round sunglasses, Dillinger watches her go.
He looks into his side view mirror and sees only a man at a mailbox, a vagrant, and a few pedestrians.
In her fur-collared coat, Billie crosses the street between passing vehicles.
She enters the building.
In the car, Dillinger faces the side mirror and brushes his bangs off his forehead.
Inside, Billie passes through another doorway.
Purvis' men grab her.
They handcuff her.
She uncomfortably glances at the agents.
Outside, Dillinger waits in the car.
More armed agents exit a building directly in front of him.
He startles slightly.
But the G-men step right past, realizing he's inside, and cross the street.
Dillinger takes off his sunglasses.
The agents restraining Billie indoors lead her outside.
Dillinger glares into his side mirror, then gets out of the car.
The two lovers make eye contact as the burly agent marches Billie away, shoving her toward a government car.
Dillinger steps forwards with a pistol in hand.
The burly agent pushes Billie into the back seat and gets in next to her.
As the drive away, Billie peers through the back window, sitting between two agents.
A shocked Dillinger stands out in the open, watching the car drive off.
Several armed agents remain behind on the sidewalk.
They fail to notice Dillinger, who strides around a parked car and returns to his vehicle.
Dillinger gets in and shuts the door.
Gripping the steering wheel, he bows his head and collects his breath.
His car backs out.
Dillinger leaves the remaining agents behind.
The gangster wipes his reddened face and holds a hand over his mouth as he sobs.
In a dim interrogation room, the burly agent leans in front of Billie, who sits in a chair.
His partner stands behind her.
She slouches, her left cheek bruised.
The interrogator smacks her and grabs her chin.
He flings her head to the side and stands upright.
The interrogator steps out of the room.
Billie trembles.
Her right hand cuffed to the chair, she holds her knees together.
In the outer office, the burly agent downs a paper cup of water and passes Doris, who glares at him as he returns to the interrogation room.
The interrogator returns, shuts the door, and eyes Billie.
He crosses to her and grabs her chin again.
He grabs her chin.
He shakes her.
Billie's mouth hangs open.
She shudders.
Her lips tremble as she finds words.
The two agents leave her.
On the way through the field office, the interrogator points to Doris.
She holds the telephone at her shoulder.
He puts on his jacket.
The other men gather their things and move out.
Doris dials her telephone.
The agents run up a stairwell.
Standing outside an apartment door, one shoots the top and bottom hinges.
They rush in.
Daylight filters into a bare room through an open window.
The place is empty.
The burly agent stiffens his jaw.
Back in the interrogation room, Billie sits with her head down.
The two agents barge in.
The burly one grabs a phone book and whacks her with it.
She keeps her head down, then looks directly at him.
As Purvis enters the field office, Doris approaches him.
In the interrogation room.
She lowers her head and wipes her mouth.
The interrogator glares down at her and tensely wipes his mouth.
Billie looks him in the eye.
He sneers and winds up with his fist.
Winstead intercepts his arm and slams him against the wall.
Purvis enters.
The other interrogator quickly uncuffs Billie's right arm from the chair.
As she holds her wrist, Purvis leans over to her.
He stands upright.
Billie presses down on the arms of the chair to get up, then stops.
Purvis glances at the other interrogator, then lifts Billie from the chair and carries her out.
In the hall, the rest of the agents stand aside as he passes with the weakened woman.
Interrogation room, Winstead lowers his arm from the burly agent's throat and leaves.
Purvis nods to Doris.
She escorts them.
In the interrogation room, the burly agent stays put beside the open door, out of the sightline of his peers, who stare in from the hall.
On a pool hall, Marty dials a pay phone.
At his home, Nitti answers.
A woman sits at a bar.
A door opens across the room.
Marty enters and takes a seat next to her.
Her weary gaze hangs straight ahead.
Then she looks directly at Marty.
He takes her hand and gazes into her eyes.
They pick up their drinks and share another glance.
They both sip.
At night, a lake reflects city lights.
Marty leads Anna to a car.
She gets in back and gazes at the unseen driver.
Purvis sits at the wheel.
Anna averts her gaze.
Purvis stares at the helpless informant.
She gets out of the car.
Purvis' gaze follows her as she walks around his vehicle.
Holding a gun in his pocket, Dillinger peeks around a tree.
He wears a straw boater hat and sports a trimmed mustache.
He steps out to meet Piquett.
They sit on a roadside park bench.
Piquett reaches into his coat.
Dillinger unfolds the page to reveal a handwritten message.
I am too well guarded.
Two years is not a long time anyway.
Dillinger folds up the note.
Dillinger stands and walks away.
Piquett puts on his hat and heads off in the opposite direction.
Now at a stone wall, Dillinger, Alvin Karpis, and other men look down at an idling steam locomotive.
Alvin turns away from Dillinger, who stares ahead.
Anna sits at the kitchen table fanning herself with a magazine.
Dillinger enters.
He crosses the room.
Anna's fanning motion slows as her knowing gaze follows him.
Dillinger glances around the living room, then returns to the kitchen.
He goes to the sink and washes his hands.
Anna glances at the door.
Polly emerges.
He dries his hands with the towel and leads the way through the house to the front door.
They leave.
Our view returns to Anna, who remains at the table, covering her mouth with her hand.
Madala crosses the field office to Purvis, who sits on a desk.
Purvis eagerly talks the call.
As he listens, Winstead looks up from a newspaper.
Purvis lowers the phone and turns to his peers.
The agents gather.
All eyes turn to Winstead.
Madala checks a newspaper.
Dillinger pulls up to a building with Polly.
They enter the building through a set of double doors.
She goes off.
Dillinger steps forward, casually chewing gum as he glances around.
An elevator door opens.
Dillinger steps aboard among a few other men, including a uniformed officer.
He glances at the elevator operator.
The door glides shut.
He enters the quiet office, passing a row of empty chairs against the wall of a waiting area.
Daylight shines in through a window.
Dillinger hikes up his pants as he enters the main office.
He turns to a bulletin board where multiple mug shots of familiar criminals hang posted.
He crosses to a desk and holds briefly by a secretary busy typing.
A couple of yards ahead, an agent on the phone sits at his desk, unaware of Dillinger's presence.
The gangster finds another bulletin board and scans its postings.
A mug shot of Homer, photos of a robbed bank and a sprawled body, and a street map.
A smile crosses Dillinger's lips as he passes through a brilliant shaft of sunlight.
Farther along the bulletin board, he finds black and white photos of himself.
Others show more buildings.
Dillinger lowers his sunglasses and views photos of the Little Bohemia Lodge, the wrecked Ford, and a pair of confiscated Tommy gun.
He crosses to a bulletin board showing mug shots of Billie.
The last mug shot of Dillinger himself remains unstamped.
Dillinger lowers his shades and meets his mug shot's stern gaze.
Dillinger rounds a corner and spies a group of agents around the radio.
One man glances over.
Unrecognized, Dillinger moves on.
In a cinema lobby, using a public phone, a fair-haired agent scans the surrounding.
Elsewhere, another agent ends the call.
Gazing across the street, he shakes his head.
At the wheel of a parked car, Madala looks to Purvis, seated shotgun.
By a lamp's modest light, a shaving kit lies open on a small, round table.
A handgun lies beside it.
Facing a mirror, Dillinger drags a razor down his lathered cheek.
He finishes shaving and opens his pocket watch, eying Billie's photo and the time.
He shuts the watch, puts it away, and pockets the gun.
Parked near the Biograph, Purvis tensely rubs his thin- lipped mouth.
At the box office, a few anonymous patrons mill into the theater.
The agent looks away, shifting his anxious gaze.
He gets out of the car and paces down the sidewalk.
He stops, turns, and puts his back to the cinema.
Behind him, a man arrives with two blonde women, one of them in a conspicuous orange skirt.
Purvis blinks, then looks over his shoulder.
Spotting the trio, he looks away.
Entering the packed house, the crime boss leaves Anna at her seat, then proceeds down the aisle with Polly.
They find adjacent seats as opening titles appear on the screen.
In the packed audience, Dillinger stares intently at the screen through his spectacles.
Outside, Purvis addresses his agents.
Purvis pats Winstead's shoulder.
The team splits up.
In the movie house, the crowd watches figures on screen playing hockey, then Clark Gable washing his hands in a men's room.
Another character walks in.
Dillinger gazes at the screen with a boyish smirk.
Gable shoots the man.
Sitting on her own, Anna turns, peeking nervously over her shoulder.
She faces the screen again, her chest heaving.
Outside, the agents take their positions.
Winstead and Hurt duck into a storefront's recessed entryway.
In the movie house, Dillinger watches the screen with a furrowed brow.
Leading lady Myrna Loy stares with her mouth agape.
Dillinger gazes at her with a knitted brow and clenched jaw.
In a fur-collared coat, the exotically pretty actress wears a pensive expression.
Later, she shifts her sober gaze.
Later still, she turns away from a door clad in black.
Taking a deep breath, she manages a brave nod.
Blinking back tears, she opens the door and hurries out.
Clark Gable stares after her.
Dillinger watches with shining eyes.
Outside, Purvis checks his watch.
Posted near the box office, he looks across the street.
Winstead and Hurt wait patiently in the recessed storefront.
Purvis turns, gazing toward the cinema lobby.
On the movie screen, Clark Gable faces William Powell.
He dons a cocky smile.
Dillinger watches with a defiant smirk.
On screen, Gable turns away from Powell, who draws a deep breath and heads into a cellblock.
A guard follows, closes a prison door, and locks it.
Outside the theater, Purvis digs a box of matches from his pocket and takes one out.
From his breast pocket, he produces a cigar and holds it ready.
Movie screen.
Gable makes his way down the cellblock, flanked by guards.
Dillinger wears a faint, sad smile as Gable faces a fellow convict.
Dillinger wears a faint half-smile, his eyes shining.
Outside, Purvis shifts his tense, vigilant gaze.
In the movie house, words on the screen.
The patrons stand, filing out of their rows.
Anna tensely gets to her feet and looks around.
A few rows down, Dillinger stands with Polly and dons his straw hat.
Outside, Purvis watches the exiting patrons.
At the storefront, Winstead and Hurt stand ready.
In the parked car, the burly agent sweats at the wheel.
His right hand trembles severely.
He uses his left to steady it.
Near the cinema door, Purvis watches movie patrons exiting the lobby.
He faces the street, strikes the match, and lights his cigar.
With a hostile sneer, the burly agent rushes out of the car.
Dillinger steps into plain view, walking between Anna and Polly.
The crime boss smiles thoughtfully.
His younger friend wears a carefree grin.
Keeping her pace, Anna holds a dour expression.
Shoving a bystander aside, Purvis heads down the sidewalk after them.
The burly agent joins the flow of foot traffic with his gun raised.
Martin Zarkovich notices and roughly pushes two bystanders out of his way.
Purvis moves with a deliberate stride and steady gaze.
Across the street, Winstead and Hurt leave the recessed storefront.
Meanwhile, the burly agent scowls, holding his aim as he gains on the crime boss.
A few yards ahead, Dillinger frowns.
He maintains his wide swagger.
Our view hovers at the back of Dillinger's head.
Then we see him frown.
He looks over his shoulder and halts.
As he and the burly agent lock gazes, the G-man's breathing grows shallow.
He lowers his gun on him.
Dillinger reaches into his pocket.
Purvis tries to push between a couple.
Winstead shoves between another pair, then brushes a man aside.
As Purvis struggles against the angry civilian, Winstead advances.
Dillinger sees him just feet away gripping a pistol.
Slack-jawed, Purvis relaxes his aim as Winstead lines up a shot.
The bullet pierces the back of Dillinger's skull and exits through his cheek, spewing blood and tissue.
Two crimson stains bloom on his shirt front, as Hurt fires twice from behind.
Dillinger falls face down, eyes staring off, as blood streams from his ruptured cheek.
Purvis stares, then ventures forward.
As Dillinger lies dying, his lips move.
Winstead removes his hat, crouches and leans his ear close to Dillinger.
The agent narrows his eyes, glances at the fallen man and withdraws, revealing Dillinger's lifeless stare.
Winstead gets to his feet, his sober gaze locked on the dead man.
 He holsters his gun and Purvis joins his side.
As the younger G-man eyes the body, Winstead dons his hat, his air stoic and grim.
The older man faces him.
Purvis eyes him long and steady.
Winstead glances away, then looks Purvis in the eye.
Marty leans in for a good look at Dillinger's body, then heads off.
Polly averts her gaze.
Purvis takes another look at the body.
A dozen civilians from the movie house rubber-neck as they move closer to the scene.
A few yards off Anna glances over her shoulder and slips away.
Before the growing crowd, a man lights a flare and holds it aloft.
A few men swap grins and chat.
The scene draws more Chicagoans from across the street, and more flares illuminate the area with searing light.
The armed federal agents struggle to maintain order.
Someone's hand blocks our view.
A camera flashes over Dillinger's body.
Winstead lights a cigarette and pensively looks away.
More onlookers converge on the scene.
Policemen help the agents manage pushy photographers.
Purvis leaves the scene, silhouetted against the flares sallow light.
Behind him, the glow and the smoke fill the air, blotting the crowd from view.
More civilians rush in.
From overhead, we gaze down at the chaos, as we withdraw.
Winstead sits at a table in a small room with white brick walls.
In a cellblock, a matron escorts Billie.
Clad in a simple gray dress, she wears a dull expression.
As the matron ushers her to another, the prisoner maintains her dispassionate gaze.
In the visiting room the door opens.
Winstead stands as Billie enters.
She stares guardedly at him, then takes the seat facing his.
Winstead sits.
Leaning forward, he faces her with a knitted brow.
Billie swallows, blinks her glistening eyes.
Then gives a stony nod.
Billie glares coldly.
Winstead opens a gold cigarette case and briefly thumbs the contents.
He turns the case, offering the grieving woman a cigarette.
She sneers.
Winstead pockets the cigarette case.
The agent stares solemnly.
Billie narrows her eyes.
Her defiant sneer fades.
Billie's eyes glisten.
She looks down and sniffles, letting tears stream down her cheeks.
Meeting Winstead's gaze, she gives a small, grateful nod.
The agent gets to his feet, hat in hand, and faces one of the room's two doors.
Eyes closed, Billie slowly shakes her head and takes a deep breath.
Opening her eyes the young woman gazes off, with a solemn, care-worn expression.
Blinking her tearful eyes, she swallows hard.
Billie's lips hint at a wistful smile.
Winstead stands, with his back to her, as he sets his hat on his head.
The gray door opens and he steps out.
The door closes.
A lion's head looks out from a crest formed by a garland of film, Metro-Goldman-Mayer, which features the words.
Light flares from a torch held aloft by a robed woman standing on a pedestal in front of a sky dominated by towering clouds.
Towering crags rise out of a shining sea.
Two powerful cars speed along a tunnel which runs along the coast.
A shiny wheel flashes, a driver's eyes are fixed on the road.
A gun is caught, the driver checks his rear view mirror.
He guns his shiny Aston-Martin past a line of traffic as his pursuers open up.
Bullet holes pepper the Aston's windows.
The tire on a truck bursts and gets swerved into the Aston's path sliding along the wall as James Bond, the steely-eyed Aston driver bakes hard.
He swerves past the truck which pulls out on him.
A piece of metal protruding at the front of the truck, punches into the cars door, locking the two vehicles together.
Bond brakes hard causing the metal to rip his door open sending the Aston spinning down the road in front of the truck.
He regains control and speeds off.
The two lanes ahead are blocked.
One coming right for him.
He locks into a gap.
But his pursuers hit the truck head on.
Another Alfa Romeo is still in the chase.
Approaching a traffic jam he swerves left, flying down another tunnel to chase a track's vision off.
The Aston-Martin followed by the black Alfa-Romeo driving towards the quarry.
The cops glimpse the cars speed over a bridge.
The Land Rover heads off, blue lights flashing.
Coming out of the tunnel and rounding a corner, Bond skids the car to avoid the police Land Rover which blocks the road in front of him and heads off through the dusty quarry, the Alfa still on his tail.
He swerves past tracked excavators and down a winding bumpy track in front of a smooth new quarry rock face.
The cops open fire and get blasted from the Alfa.
The Land Rover plows into a building and off the edge of a cliff.
Bond calmly changes gear.
His eyes widen as the Land Rover bounces across the track right in front of him.
The Alfa gunman is leaning out of the car's passenger window.
Bond ducks as glass and bullets fill the Aston.
The Alfa draws alongside and the two cars trade dusty paintwork.
A bulldozer looms in front of them.
Both cars swerve round it.
Bond draws a machine-gun.
The Alfa hurtles off a precipice.
Bond drives the dusty battered Aston into a medieval Italian town with stone buildings and narrow streets.
A lofty campanile bell tower dominates the huddle of buildings.
Wooden gates open.
Bond heads down a long, straight brick tunnel.
He stops, gets out and opens the boot.
A man blinks up at him.
Bond is elevated in a pool of light.
Bond fires a bullet in a super slow-mo burst of smoke.
A bullet-stream smoke.
The Bulllet moves over san dew.
Light surrounds the sun, and a shadowy Bond aims his pistol.
Bond's shadow passes over the dunes.
A red dot travels sideways.
A naked woman is siloute by the sand
 A naked woman lies over the dunes in the half light.
Bond stands in the low light.
Fine sands flow like liquid.
A womans naked body emerges from the flowing sand.
Bond turns aiming his gun.
A gloomed shaped hood of lights surrounds the scene.
A naked woman stands in siloutte.
Bond falls in Billowing sand.
Sand and stars swirl amongst the grim of light.
The grid flexes turns and walks as the sand billows against starry darkness.
A crowd of naked women posing silhouette around the glaring sun.
Forming circles of bodies which are animated into a flickering blur.
They dissolve away, hence floating through space.
Sand swirls in the light.
Posing high-heels forming a slowly turning pattern.
Bond falls towards the expanding people in the eye.
Sand engulfs a pistol as Bond falls in slow motion onto the sandy ground.
He raises his pistol and fires in super slow-motion.
The bullet spins slowly as it flies.
The red dot travel side ways.
Sun flares behind a pile of naked women.
The bullet lands in an explosion of sand.
A red and yellow checked flag billows in the breeze
A procession of people in bright costumes parades around a square watched by huge crowds.
Bond dumps the man from the boot on a chair in a cellar.
M and another agent watch.
Bond gulps whiskey.
Near-tired horseman enter the square.
Which is laid out as a racetrack.
A chair is dragged across a stone floor.
Bond sits next to Mr. White, joined by M.
Mitchell drops one agent.
As M goes down, the horse race starts.
Bond leaps on the man and grabs the gun.
The prisoner's hit and goes down.
Bond disarms Mitchell and kicks the gun away, then gets booted to the ground.
Mitchell goes for the gun and runs off.
The fast and furious Palio horse race thunders around Seina's main square.
Mitchell pounds down spiral stairs and into water at the base of a tower, then dives through an iron gate.
Bond ignores the stairs and takes a flying leap after him.
In the race, a rider falls.
Bond chases his man down a watery tunnel, but a gate bars his way.
He changes direction.
The underground chase is as furious as the race above.
Mitchell crashes through some supports.
The roof starts to cave in on Bond.
The crowds cheer enthusiastically.
Mitchell's on a ladder to the surface as Bond picks himself up and keeps going.
Fireworks signify that the race has a winner.
The track is invaded.
Amidst the tears and celebrations, Bond emerges from a manhole.
Mitchell barges his way through the throng.
Bond follows.
He fires towards Bond, hitting a woman, then scrambles over a barrier onto the racetrack.
sprints in pursuit.
The chase moves through a courtyard, then through a door and upstairs.
Mitchell barges into an elderly woman lifting a crate of fruit on a rope.
The crate crashes to the ground.
Mitchell leaps across tiled rooftops, his pursuer following relentlessly.
He takes a massive leap between buildings.
Cluster around the shot civilian.
A round strikes nearby as Bond leaps.
He lands, slides down the tiles, then jumps again, landing heavily on a ledge.
His quarry is on a roof across from and above him.
He jumps down onto a balcony, leaps onto another, and holds himself up on the metal railings.
He bursts into a room, runs through the apartment and sees Mitchell climbing onto another roof a short distance away.
He jumps from a window onto the roof of a bus.
He gets to his feet and jumps from the vehicle onto another ledge, then shins off a drainpipe.
Face set grimly, he's now on the same roof as his target.
Mitchell arrives at the top of an empty tower.
He leaps for a flight of steps dislodging recently.
Bond follows and fires as the double agent runs out of sight.
Bond pulls on the bell ropes, then heads up to the belfry, gun up and ready.
Mitchell attacks from a perch outside the tower.
Bond grabs his arm and hits out with an elbow.
Both fall through a glass roof and onto a scaffold beneath.
Bond's gun falls to the floor far below.
Hanging by one hand, Bond tries to pull down the scaffolding beneath his adversary.
Mitchell falls but grabs onto a rope.
It swings, knocking over a pane of glass which shatters, sending vicious shards raining down.
The rope gantry swings and the crate of bricks falls from the other end.
Bond also grabs a rope.
The two men end up facing each other, dangling on ropes at either end of the steel gantry.
They trade blows and smash into a scaffold which topples over, pulling on the rope, hauling them into the glass roof.
Mitchell falls onto the scaffold.
Leg caught in a rope, Bond plummets, but is stopped just before hitting the ground near the gun.
The gantry turns, moving Bond away from the gun, and pulling Mitchell off the scaffold.
The rogue agent lands on a scaffold tower, as Bond pulls at the rope around his leg.
He climbs for a gun on the scaffold.
Bond's trying to reach the one on the ground.
Both scoop up the weapons.
Bond fires.
The crowds are dispersing in the Town Square.
Police car makes its way down a crowded.
Covered in dust, Bond strides through the crowds towards the wooden gate in the tunnel.
Blood stains the cellar floor, but the prisoner, Mr. White, is gone.
Bond stares dispassionately at the scene.
It's raining.
A black Range Rover arrives at a high-rise block of flats.
M stands looking out from one of the balconies.
Bond emerges from the Range Rover and enters through through the building's glass door.
Ignoring a stolid guard, Bond enters a flat, passes masked forensics officers, and joins M on the balcony.
The boffin opens a door for M.
Bond's eyes narrow.
He's wearing shades in the back of a taxi, driving down a dusty street.
He gets out of the taxi opposite the faded sign and entrance to the Hotel Dessalines.
In dark polo shirt and light trousers, he enters the building, and makes his way through the drab-tiled lobby, strung with washing lines.
He moves down plain concrete corridors, arrives at a door, and positions himself to one side of it.
He uses a tool to pick the lock.
He enters cautiously, peering round the door, into the plainly furnished, empty living room.
Closing the door behind him, he walks into the apartment.
A switch-blade flicks open.
A man leaps through glass doors, swinging the blade wildly.
Bond slams him through the glass into the bedroom.
The man recovers and swings again.
Bond attacks with the phone.
He goes down, and finds a pair of scissors.
Bond slams him into a wall, but gets head-butted, then hits him with a book.
He parries the knife blows, and grabs the guy's knife hand in a finger-breaking hold.
They go through a window, out onto a balcony.
Bond has him by the throat.
He drives the scissors into the guy's neck, and thigh.
Bond's completely unmoved as the guy rolls his eyes in agony, then dies, blood pooling beneath his head.
He goes to search the rooms.
He takes a shirt from a wardrobe, and rips it to make a bandage for a cut on his arm.
He shrugs on a shirt, and wipes blood from his nose.
Barely glancing at the body, he grabs the door keys, and heads downstairs.
He turns to the young black woman at reception with a grim.
He takes the metal case and walks out.
A small car comes flying round a corner.
He hesitates.
He clocks her handbag.
He opens it without her seeing.
There's a guy on a moped behind them.
She streaks across the traffic, causing coffins.
The moped guy has to stop.
The brunette, with high cheek bones, turns the little car into an alley off the road.
Their pursuer tries to work out where they've gone.
She pouts sexily, and gestures to the case.
They look through papers as moped guy looks for them.
The papers are all blank.
He grabs her wrist as she fires.
Then, as the moped gets closer, he jumps out of the car.
He turns to see the moped guy approaching.
He flips the bike out from under him, kicks him in the face, then rides off.
He's a few cars behind the girl.
Bond rides impassively, following the girls little bronze car.
They arrive at a quay where boats are being unloaded.
Furiously she storms past a guard in dark glasses.
Bond rides onto the quay, and clocks the guard in a floral shirt, carrying a sub-machine gun.
The girl strides into an office as an official stamps a docket
She stands over the Frenchman.
The thin German speaker looks nervous.
There's a body floating in the water under the quay.
A powerful speedboat approaches.
He gives the guard a card and looks up at a security camera before walking off.
The German in square shades looks at a card from Universal Exports.
Bond activates the tracking function on his phone.
Pay attention next time.
He approaches the heavyset general with the bushy mustache.
He holds up a map.
The general eyeballs the little Frenchman and takes the map nodding.
The girl glares at them.
He waves her over.
A burly hand grabs her arm.
Bond watches with a frown, then rides away.
Camille is led to the speedboat.
Bond rides through the busy docks standing in the saddle to look around.
Dominic waves an ironic goodbye as the boat with Camille on it pulls away.
She looks with sultry hatred in his direction.
Bond jumps the bike off the quay into a boat.
Rides over some crates, jumps onto another boat then abandons the machine.
The launch is heading towards a huge luxury cruiser.
Bond runs across the closely packed boats crammed with merchandise.
He leaps onto a small launch, pulls the starting cord on the outboard motor and starts to shadow the general's boat.
He rams the boat.
Dominic watches in disbelief as the crew on the cruise grab weapons and jump into an inflatable.
Bond boards the launch.
Camille grabs a gun but Bond knocks into the water, grabs her and drags her off the boat into his.
Guns the engine and speeds off.
The general points and roars as an inflatable comes into play speeding after Bond.
The general's men open up as Camille and Bond struggle.
They get ramped werving with their own boat sideways.
Bond gets control, then they duck a hail of bullets.
They stare straight of the inflatable.
Camille takes a gunman out with a boat hook, then the inflatable turns for another run.
The swerving boats kick up fountains of spray.
Bond crashes through some more boats as their pursuers exchange frantic hand signals coordinating a two-boat attack.
He speeds at the two inflatables head on.
He crashes between them sending men sprawling.
The gunman wrestles with his weapon.
He rams an engine which explodes.
Then Bond grabs the wheel as the other boat closes in.
The chase heads for the tightly packed marina.
Bond throttles back and the other boat rear-ends them so hard it mounts their stern knocking Camille down in the process.
With the two boats locked together Bond grabs a grappling hook and throws it into the inflatable.
The rope unrolls and becomes taut hurling the inflatable away from their boat.
He turns the boat around in calm water and heads away from the scene with barely a backward glance.
With Camille unconscious in the bottom of the boat, he heads away from a quiet inlet with rolling tree covered highlands towards a landing stage near a development of populant white building.
He stops the boat at the jetty and carries Camille through crowds of retirement-aged tourists.
He dumps her on a puzzled member of staff.
And walks past luxury sailing yachts being maneuvered on trailers.
He consults the GPS tracker on his phone.
He approaches a 4 by 4 with its door open, looks around the yard, then casually slips behind the wheel.
He drives through rundown suburbs and makes a call to his neat glass partitioned headquarters.
An agent heads for M's office.
Two black 4 by 4 arrived at an airfield.
Dominic Green and his guard get out of the car.
Greene walks onto an executive jet.
The plane carrying Greene beam black agent with a beard takes off.
The thin German adds sugar to coffee and turbulence hits as Greene returns from a comfort break.
The black agent glares at him.
Greene looks noncommittal.
His colleague smiles coldly.
He shows Beam Bond's photo on his camera.
He tosses the phone to the surly agent who studies the picture.
He closes the phone and hands it back.
He eyeballs his colleague.
The jet taxis outside a hangar.
Greene gets into a car, glances up at the CIA agents and grins.
Felix gives a bitter smile then follows Beam up the plane's steps.
Greene's car arrives in town.
They drive through quiet cobbled streets past a bubbling fountain.
Bond is following his GPS tracker.
Greene arrives at a large very modern leisure complex.
He and the German are wearing tuxedos.
Crowds of people in evening dress are arriving by riverboat.
Crowds mill in the foyer.
Greene walks upstairs.
A huge glitter ball and other equipment is being wheeled on trolleys and a poster advertising Tosca.
A man crosses the staging area and down some stairs to the Kunslerangang, the artists' entrance.
In a dressing room, makeup is applied and costumes are checked.
One actress is having a wound painted on her forehead.
Bond walks down a plain white corridor, opens a door and steps inside.
Guests gather in a reception area in the form of a cube built over the theater entrance.
Greene oozes charm as he shakes an older man's hand.
His German companion drifts off.
The performers are getting changed.
A well muscled actor checks two wardrobes but can't find his clothes.
Bond joins the theatergoers wearing a tuxedo.
Greene's crony is carrying a bag.
Bond looks down at the revelers from a balcony.
He spots Greene and his friend sipping champagne and talking to two elegant women.
He watches as white-shirted hostesses give out gift bags to guests.
Bond follows the guests with the gift bag in the toilets.
The crowds move into the auditorium.
Greene and his friend carrying their gift bags are welcomed into a private box.
Bond empties the bag into a basin.
He picks up a small pin in the shape of a letter Q, then opens up a box and takes out a small earpiece.
Greene does the same, settling in his chair.
The guest Bond followed in is slumped in the corner.
He steps out of the toilet and rips off the door handle.
The singer is raised up the set on a decorator's cradle.
Bond is back stage behind the set which features huge moving eye.
He climbs up a walk way.
Greene is watching from his box.
Bond climbs flight after flight up to metal stairs.
Greene's friend looks around and smiles weakly at a grim faced man standing at the back of the box.
The man stares at him.
From a high gantry Bond looks out at the vast packed amphitheater.
Greene's eyes widen.
All over the auditorium men stand up and make their way out.
He takes photos with his phone.
Bond intercepts the intruder and takes him out with a fist and a knee.
He heads back downstairs.
The speaker is Mr. White.
On stage the dungeon lid is slammed.
Upstairs, Greene clears out of his box.
Bond emerges near the side of the stage, removes his earpiece and walks out just yards away from where White is sitting.
As Bond walks calmly down the corridor, Greene and his party are hurrying for an exit.
They come face to face.
On stage guns are drawn.
The hero is shot on stage as men chase Bond.
He runs through a crowded restaurant and shots are fired taking down a bystander.
Bond waits in ambush.
A pursuer goes gun battle ensues in the restaurant.
Bond escapes into the kitchen area.
A man body checks him, but Bond shoots him pointblank through the body.
He ducks as a door flies open in front of him.
He tips over a pan of oil which bursts into flames and gets past the gunman as the hero dies bloodily on stage.
He marches the man away with a gun at his neck.
He holds the guy at the edge of a roof.
Greene gets in his car and Bond's prisoner tries to break free.
He sends him off the roof.
He lands on Greene's car.
Bond straightens his tuxedo.
The grim driver gets out and finishes him.
In London, an operator is looking at Bond's photos.
M stares at her screen.
He registers surprise.
He walks pensively away from the desk then goes back.
He grins and walks off.
Bond is in the back of a powerboat flying an Italian flag at the stern.
The boat is heading towards a promontory topped by a grand villa overlooking the turquoise blue sea.
Bond approaches a stout wooden door.
She can't walks off.
He drops photos on the table and helps himself to white wine.
Bond grins.
Mathis looks up at his glamorous younger woman.
Bond drains a glass.
In a bar on a plane, he looks at a picture of the dead Vespa and picks up a necklace from the bar.
He sips a martini.
Mathis joins him.
He slips the photo into his pocket.
They study one another.
Bond stays at the bar.
Bond and Mathis move through immigration.
A redhead in a raincoat stands waiting.
They get in the taxi which drives through the busy downtown traffic.
They get down from the taxi and Fields strides into a rundown hotel.
Bond heading back to the taxi.
She obeys, tight-lipped.
The statue of an eagle spreads its wings beneath a blue sky dusted with clouds.
They are still bickering.
They are led through the airy tile and marble halls.
Bond casually tosses the keys on a sofa and strides through the spacious, modern furnishings eyed by Fields.
She stands looking lost as he casts a critical eye over the bedroom and marble on-suite bathroom.
He takes off his jacket and walks into the bathroom.
Fields grins, and goes to the bedroom.
Bond answers the door naked.
Mathis hands him an envelope.
Tousle-headed Bond puts down his champagne glass and heads back to the bedroom.
He kisses her naked back.
She smiles and turns her face towards him.
He pulls her back down on to a bed.
DJ plays under a full moon.
Trays are being served and cocktails sipped.
A Range Rover pulls up at the entrance.
Bond gets out, accompanied by Fields in a glamorous black and gold dress.
He moves through the press of glamorous party goers.
He shakes another hand.
CIA agent Felix watches from a sofa.
They look down from a stone balustrade.
She kisses him and he shoves her hard against the crumbling stonework.
The thin German arrives.
Fields passes.
The CIA men are sitting together.
He belts up as he goes around to the driver's side of the Range Rover.
Motorcyclists follow them.
He parks the car.
The two motorcycle cops pull up behind.
Bond hands over his license to the cop who is wearing dark glasses at night.
As he opens it, the cop draws.
Mathis is lying in the trunk.
Bond pulls the unconscious man out.
With his colleague's gun, throws the other down, calmly shoots him and empties the gun and tosses it aside.
Bond cradles him in his arms.
Camille watches them.
His head slumps against Bond's shoulder.
Expressionlessly, Bond feels for a pulse.
Camille shifts uneasily.
He drops the body in a dumpster, removes Mathis' wallet from his jacket, takes out the cash, and tosses the wallet aside.
They walk off, leaving the body slumped amid the rubbish bags in the dumpster.
The Range Rover heads down a desert highway.
M stares coldly.
The Range Rover drives through the dusty, barren.
It arrives at a small airstrip.
The man, in a leather jacket and brimmed hat is.
He turns as Bond his jacket to cover a bloodstain on his shirt.
Bond looks at an old propeller transport plane as Camille gets out of the car.
The ageing DC-3 Dakota lumbers down the runway, raising a cloud of dust in it.
The man in a hat is already on the phone as the old plane takes to the air.
A fighter streaks past them and banks for another pass.
ond puts the plane into the dive working the controls furiously as the fighter loops to get behind them.
The fighter streaks in.
Bond flies down into a valley.
Camille looks alarmed and Bond concentrates hard as they skim the valley floor.
He lowers the under carriage.
They hit the ground hard.
He pulls the throttle back open.
The fighter hurtles down the valley after them, perilously close to a rocky outcrop.
Fields gets out of her seat and moves down the plane's fuselage.
She looks out of a side window as rocks and crags skim past.
Daylight falls through holes punched in the fuselage by another burst from the fighter.
Bond nurses the stricken aircraft as the hunter swoops in for the kill.
Eases the floor throttle forward.
Dying engines belch smoke.
Envelops the fighter's cockpit.
Transport to avoid the smoke.
Trapping the fighter between the larger plane and.
Has to do the same, slowing.
The fighter turns to avoid a collision and hurtles straight towards the rocks.
He throws here a parachute.
A red warning light shows generator failure.
She venches open the outside door for Bond, who gropes for his chute, then hauls on the stick to get out of the plane over the hill
rown slamming the plane, As the two aircraft nearly collide.
Bond raises the nose, gaining as much height as possible.
Cargo strains in its straps, which snaps back towards Camille.
Both propellers give out under the strain.
Bond drops down vertical fuselage to Camille.
He grabs her, and they tumble out into space.
Parachute, lets go of her another dive for her as the plane and they continue to fall.
M sits stony faced.
They are in the sunless steps of the sinkhole.
He puts his jacket around her shoulders.
He stands, thinks for a moment and then turns to her.
They stare at one another until Bond breaks eye contact.
She gives a small nod.
He holds out her hand she takes it and pulls herself up.
They trudge through the chilly, rocky shadows.
They come to a rock fall.
Bond kicks at some of the stones and picks one up.
He starts to climb up the rock fall.
Comes to the top and pauses
Seeing a huge underground lake.
They walk down a tunnel with the roof held up by wooden supports.
People cluster around.
People queue for water and argue amongst themselves.
A man climbs up to peer in it, but the well is dry.
A stand pipe stops dribbling.
The bus arrives at the dying town.
A small grooup of people joined by Bond and Camille get on board.
The bus red tail lights shine through the dusty.
Covered in dust.
Arrive at the Grand Hotel.
He heads unhurriedly upstairs, makes his way across the landing and approaches the door of his room.
He pushes it open.
He bursts into the bedroom.
Fields' body is on the bed covered in black oil.
He is frisked and escorted out.
Breaks another's knee and lays out the third.
He grabs the keys and unlocks his handcuffs, then frisks his would be captors.
As the lift doors open, he cocks the automatic and calmly slips it into the waistband of his trousers in the small of his back.
He flips a dangling leg back into the lift as the doors close and intercepts M.
He vaults a balustrade into the balcony above the lobby, avoiding the squads of agents looking for him.
Is back past M.
She gives a half smile as Bond leaves the building.
In a dingy building, two men are carrying a heavy box downstairs.
In an office, Felix swigs from a bottle.
Felix puffs on his cigar as Bond hangs up.
In a rundown part of town, men are drinking, smoking and playing games in a bar.
Felix walks in to join Bond who is at the bar.
A guy in a leather jacket walks to the bar.
A soldier in armor.
He sprints upstairs and takes out a waiting soldier with an elbow to the face.
Another opens up, sprints off and jumps from one building to another.
Felix observes the chaos dispassionately and sips his beer.
Beam looks concerned as Felix gets in the car.
Bond emerges from the shadows of a balcony onto the rundown street.
The sun blazes down on a rocky desert.
The general, police chief and guard sit on a cool balcony surveying the arid scene.
The general leers after the slim hostess.
The police chief wags a knowing finger at him.
Behind a rock overlooking the geometrically laid out compound, Camille expertly assembles and loads an automatic.
Two cars approach.
She stares at him.
She looks coldly at him.
To an underground entrance.
Parties converge along metal walkways and staircases.
They arrive at a meeting area surrounded by clear glass panels.
There is a display of shiny metallic balls nearby.
Green's party arrive, his grim-faced driver carrying two metal attache cases.
Greene grins at the general.
The hostess brings the general's beer.
She removes the beer.
A document is placed on the table.
Green slides it over to the general with a pen.
Camille vaults over the edge of the compound's main building and drops onto the balcony.
The general eyes Green grimly and grabs the paper.
The second case is placed in front of him.
He opens it and examines the wads of bank notes inside.
He leaves the table as Green and his men grin smugly.
Inside the building, Camille is heading in their direction.
She hides in a doorway as the general and his bodyguard.
She composes herself.
The police chief heads downstairs to his four by four and dumps the money on the backseat.
The general's men stand guard at his suite as Green's party head for the car park.
Rips her clothes.
Camille breathes deeply.
Drops onto the police chief's car.
He shoots the chief in the head.
He clings to the bumper as the driver reverses.
The chief's Land Rover reverses into a wall, which explodes in a fireball.
Bond is hurled against a wall and showered with glass.
Huddled beneath a car, Bond fires at legs, the only targets he can see.
Then he is up and running.
He slams a man in a car door, runs to the stairs and takes down Green's driver.
Camille shoots the general's guards and kicks one so hard he flies over a railing.
The general gets off the hostess.
Camille rips off her shirt and stands ready in a stroppy white top as Green bounds up the stairs.
He places his German friend as armed guard.
Enters the general's room.
The hostess, hands bound, runs for the door and is batted aside by Camille who is then attacked by the general.
He knocks the gun from her hand and slaps her.
Bond runs upstairs.
He is aimed at by Green's man just as the compound's main fuel cells erupt, engulfing the meeting area in flames and flying glass.
The German is consumed in the fire.
But Green runs up the stairs, pursued by Bond.
Bond is above Green on the flat glass roof.
He fires down and the glass disintegrates.
He drops back into the building.
Green attacks with a metal bar.
Bond drops his gun.
Green grabs an ax from a fire point and flails wildly at Bond.
The general has Camille by the throat.
He pulls off the edge of the floor they are on and dangles in space.
Bond, holding him by the hair.
Camille struggles desperately under her attacker, grabs his groin and kicks him in the face.
She dives for the gun.
Camille breathes deeply.
Bond hauls Green back up by the hair and dumps him on the floor.
Fire falls through the ceiling.
Bond runs to her aid.
Camille sits crouched in terror, as fire and masonry fall around her.
The building is collapsing as Bond tries to reach her.
He spots her through the flames, puts his arms around her as the ceiling continues to crack by fire and falling rubble.
Bond holds her tightly, spots the gun and picks it up.
Her eyes are wide with terror.
He is about to kill them.
A burst exposes a fuel cell in the wall.
The blast takes out the whole side of the building.
Green has got clear.
Bond watches him go as he and Camille clamber down the rubble.
Dragging his injured foot.
A plume of dust appears in the barren, empty desert.
Bond is behind the wheel of a car.
He stops, gets out and flings Green to the ground.
Pulls a can of oil from the trunk.
Green stares down at the can and at the car as it drives away across the vast, empty.
An elderly couple sit on a wooden bench on a rail platform.
A uniformed official strides out of a faded station and across the tracks.
Bond's car arrives at the depot.
A local swigs beer as the car comes to a stop.
She strokes his face.
He leans across and kisses her.
They look sadly at each other and she gets out of the car.
He drives away as she heads for the station.
Snow is falling thickly on square apartment blocks at night.
A couple, arm in arm, approach one of the blocks.
They enter an apartment.
Sitting in the dark, waiting, Bond.
A Walther PPK sits comfortably in Bond's black gloved hand.
It points straight at the man.
Bond's blue eyes are icy with fury at the man responsible for Vesper's death.
She gets up and leaves.
Bond's eyes bore into him.
As Bond comes out into the snow, two agents walk indoors.
M gives a half smile as he walks off into the snowy night.
He drops the necklace.
His face is expressionless as he walks away.
The necklace gleams in the snow.
On a page of parchment, the Warner Brothers shield.
Warner Brothers Pictures, a Time Warner company.
The page turns to a set of interlocking V's.
Village Roadshow Pictures.
Another page turn reveals L shapes and a set of two broken squares with a small square in the center.
A pocket watch on a chain lies on a desk beside typewritten sheets, on top of which rests a magnifying glass.
Sitting at the typewriter is a man in his late with dark hair and a neat mustache.
A marquee in front of a cathedral erupts in flames, and smoke billows out over bodies on the ground.
A man in a frock coat carries a brown paper package under his right arm.
As he passes a woman in a wide-sleeved outfit, he transfers the package to her.
The pretty, dark-haired woman with a hat perched jauntily on her head is Irene Adler.
Sherlock Holmes, disguised as an Oriental man, lies on a mattress in the street smoking a pipe.
He sits up.
Holmes grabs handfuls of rice and coffee beans and places them in a bag.
Irene strides through the open market.
Ahead of her, a man tosses an apple.
Irene walks down steps.
She stops and twirls.
Holmes walks up and takes her arm.
He swapped a loaf for the package.
He pulls her aside.
She glances round at them.
She leads him by the hand into an alley.
The swarthy man who was tossing the apples steps out in front of them.
She takes the package back from him.
She leaves him with the loaf.
The swarthy man studies Holmes' shabby disguise, then whistles.
Holmes removes his spectacles as the three men facing him close in.
They slap the bread away and rip off his fake, droopy mustache and ill-fitting wig.
He turns.
The swarthy man grabs him by the neck and throws him against a fence.
Holmes kicks the man, then punches him.
He throws rice in one of the thug's face, ducks as another throws a punch and instead hits his colleague.
Holmes makes a good account of himself, then is pressed back against the slatted wooden fence and chains are wrapped round his wrists.
As the leader closes in with a crate, Holmes spits coffee beans into his face.
Holmes manages to duck beneath the crate swung at him and kicks an attacker to the ground.
They step back as they see two uniformed policemen on the beat.
Holmes slumps to the ground.
The swarthy man tosses coins at him.
The man does a little skip.
The peelers walk away.
The man starts to whistle again.
Holmes is crouched on the ground, as if in a trance.
In his mind, he sees the action about to unfold.
The men eye their leader, who makes a cutthroat gesture to them.
In his mind, Holmes sees a thug with a pocket watch take out a knuckleduster, a knife being thrust at Holmes, another attacker with a knuckleduster, and a third with a club.
The gang's leader has a gun.
Holmes opens his eyes and lives the action.
A blond thug tosses an apple.
Holmes thwarts the knife thrust and spins the thug, forcing the blade into another.
He throws the man with the club and snatches the gun from the leader's hand.
Holmes catches the apple as it falls and tosses it to the hapless leader.
Holmes empties the gun and hands it back.
He makes to attack the leader, who shrinks back.
Holmes jogs off.
On foot, Irene Adler enters the auctioneers, Cromwell and Griff.
She hands the package to a mature man, who gives her a letter.
The doctor starts to open the package.
Irene rises.
He holds her back.
She sits.
Holmes stops a sprung switch.
Holmes kisses her and teases the letter from her.
The doctor removes a banknote from the package, revealing dynamite.
His pipe ignites a tapestry.
The auction house clears.
Irene heads out.
She tries to retrieve the letter.
Irene goes.
Holmes takes the ticking package from the doctor.
He runs to the sarcophagus.
The bomb exploded in the closed sarcophagus.
The doctor has gone.
Outside, the scruffy Holmes draws glances from a well- dressed queue of people.
A bearded man in a tweed suit watches him closely.
Holmes turns, and the man looks away.
Holmes, the back of his Oriental jacket covered in dust from the explosion, spots the doctor slumped against a wall.
He feels for a pulse, then notices a tiny dart in the man's thigh.
He examines the dart, then turns.
The bearded man has disappeared.
Holmes places the dart in his bag.
The elaborately embossed ceiling of a grand restaurant.
Irene Adler is led to a table in the center of the restaurant and sits by a curtain, shielding her from a nearby table.
She turns to the waiter.
From the table behind the curtain.
Her tea is poured.
The bearded man in the tweed suit watches the speaker.
The bearded man clinks a teaspoon against a glass, and all the clientele and staff, with the exception of him and the man behind the curtain, rise and leave the dining room.
Irene stops sipping her tea and looks anxiously around as the place empties.
The man behind the curtain draws it open.
Irene closes her eyes, then glances down at her cup.
The man has a rattled face and sports a beard.
Irene turns her head and faces him.
Irene swallows deeply.
He turns away from her.
Irene gets to her feet and staggers away, leaning on other tables as she passes them.
He coolly sips his tea.
He stares ahead icily.
Holmes sits in the Savoy's restaurant with his back to the entrance.
He turns on hearing a woman's laugh.
He furrows his brow.
Holmes checks his watch, which rests on the table.
It's eight minutes past nine.
His left eye is bruised.
He is cleaned-up but isn't clean-shaven.
He glances around and tucks his napkin down the front of his shirt.
Pages turn.
The title is over a black-and-white illustration, which becomes a skyline of London, terraced houses, chimney pots and slate tile.
Underground-railway construction work is carried out on Baker Street.
Dr. John Watson, the man who was seated at the typewriter, limps along the pavement, a cane in his right hand.
He holds the lead for a bulldog in his left.
He has a hand-knitted scarf draped around his neck.
He opens the front door, and he and the dog enter the house.
He bends to unfasten the lead.
The dog scampers upstairs.
Watson opens the door and is immediately assailed by the fronds of a palm tree.
He grins.
He walks in.
The room is filled with tropical plants.
He spots a turkey.
He sees a motionless Holmes by the window.
A dart hits Watson in the shoulder.
He turns and sees a goat.
He sits by the mannequin of Holmes.
Another dart.
Holmes wears a two-colored garment and a brown hood, which melds perfectly with the furniture.
He pulls off the hood.
Watson glowers at him.
Holmes leans over Watson.
He unveils four mice.
Holmes goes.
She steps forward.
Holmes disappears behind closed curtains.
Watson opens the curtains and looks into his old office.
One wall is filled with a map of the world, newspaper articles and photographs.
Lines of red ribbon cover the wall.
The man in the restaurant.
Watson drinks his brandy, Holmes his formaldehyde.
Gladstone keels over.
The dog jumps up and runs off.
He has a false beard.
They ride in an early car.
People stare at the newfangled car as it goes by.
Holmes removes his enormous false beard.
He stares at Watson.
They pull up.
Watson shakes his head and gets out.
Holmes gets out.
Watson kicks one of the car's tires.
To shaking hands.
In a nightclub, two girls swing upside down from a trapeze.
Men throng the club, chatting and drinking.
Holmes and Watson sit at a table.
A waitress and a waiter spread a tablecloth for them.
Holmes downs his drink.
Watson grabs the cigar from Holmes' mouth and marches off.
Mycroft winces.
As Watson enjoys himself at the gaming tables and Mycroft chats to some other men, Holmes goes upstairs to investigate where he saw a bearded man carrying a nosegay appear from behind the curtains earlier.
Holmes parts the curtains and sees nosegays lying on a table.
A woman stands with her back to him.
He puts coins in a shell-shaped bowl.
The high cheekboned brunette turns around.
Holmes sits.
Madam Sim lights a match from a candle.
She picks up a pack of tarot cards.
Holmes stares intently at the pack and places a finger on his forehead.
He takes the pack from her and flicks through them.
He lays the Devil card down on the table.
Holmes reaches inside his jacket and takes out the letter.
He drops it on the table.
Sim looks amazed and picks it up.
Inside is a sketch of a man with a goatee beard.
That is the price I must pay to change the course of history.
She looks up from the letter.
He gives her a look and gets up.
She reaches for a gun.
He picks up an umbrella and in his mind, plans his attack on the Corsac.
He swings the brolly, and the Corsac drops down.
He knocks a knife from the man's hand.
In slow motion, Holmes karate-chops the Corsac about the face.
A kick in the groin.
Holmes bludgeons the man with the brolly.
The Corsac lunges with a knife.
Holmes dodges the attack and hooks the umbrella handle around the man's throat.
He throws the man over his shoulder and whacks him in the face.
Now, for real, Holmes pulls the Corsac down from the rafters with the umbrella and disarms him.
Sim kills the Corsac by throwing a knife into his chest.
Holmes goes over to her.
As Holmes and Sim leave, a man and two couples come in.
The Corsac comes round and leaps to his feet.
He takes off his heavy coat in which Sim's knife is embedded.
Brandishing another blade, he goes after Holmes and Sim.
He runs along the edge of a balcony within the building.
He somersaults off it down to a lower level, and heads off Holmes and Sim.
Holmes throws the Corsac, who back-flips off a wall and comes at him again.
Meanwhile, on the ground floor, Watson is still playing cards.
At least he's winning.
Sim whacks the Corsac over the head with a bottle.
Holmes twists his arm and throws him onto a sofa.
They struggle, and the Corsac's blade scrapes Holmes' cheek.
Holmes recoils.
The Corsac goes after Sim.
Holmes gives chase and tackles him to the floor.
The Corsac springs up and grabs Sim by the hair.
Holmes pulls him away and whacks him with a curtain rail.
As they fight, the Corsac attaches a line to Holmes' belt.
Sim kicks the Corsac out of the window.
The line between him and Holmes is pulled tight, dragging Holmes towards the window.
Holmes is wrenched backwards, out of the window.
He lands heavily on a barge carrying sand on the canal outside.
The Corsac bursts up out of the sand and grabs him.
Holmes breaks free and falls onto a lower deck.
The Corsac tries to flee, but Holmes yanks him back with the rope connecting them.
Men grab them both.
The men release Holmes and the Corsac.
Holmes grabs a club off one of the men watching and whacks the Corsac in the face.
Then yanks on the rope, pulling the Corsac over.
The Corsac gets up again and cuts the rope linking them together.
The Corsac starts to climb back up the window they fell from.
Sim sees him coming and backs away from the window.
One of the spectators urges Holmes on.
Holmes shins up a rope hanging from a block-and-tackle on the side of the building.
The Corsac gets back inside.
Watson collects his winnings from the other players.
Holmes smashes through a window and crashes into Watson, scattering all the money.
Holmes sits up and sees the Corsac bounding along the second floor balcony above Sim, who runs along the first.
The Corsac leaps down onto her floor.
Holmes picks himself up and gives chase.
Watson notices the other players eyeing his winnings, which are now scattered on the floor.
A free-for-all erupts as everyone lunges for the cash.
As Watson struggles with the other gamblers, Mycroft leaves the men he was chatting to.
The Corsac leaps down some steps and trips Sim up.
She rolls out of the fall and draws a knife.
The Corsac dodges her attack and punches her in the face.
He thumps her a second time and is about to strike with his own knife when Holmes intervenes.
He kicks the Corsac out of a door and into the canal.
Sim gets to her feet, clutching her nose, and turns to Holmes.
Dr. Watson arrives, a bit drunk.
He falls over.
Carruthers looks dubious.
Holmes retrieves Sim's bag and Rene's letter.
The next day, he drives his car along a narrow road leading to a village.
The car pulls up outside the church.
Sporting dark glasses and smoking his long pipe, Holmes turns around to a bruised and beaten Watson, who is asleep beside him.
He nudges Watson, who stirs but doesn't awake.
Holmes gets out of the vehicle, walks round it and shoves Watson again.
He still doesn't rouse.
Holmes spots two pipers outside the church and gestures for them to play.
Watson awakes with an appalled expression.
Holmes starts pulling at a coat Watson is using as a blanket.
Watson clings to it, so Holmes yanks it from his grasp.
A couple of empty bottles fall out of the car as Watson struggles out of it.
As Holmes tries to tidy him up, the sleeve of Watson's jacket rips off.
Holmes tosses it into the car.
Watson eyes him wearily, and Holmes nods.
They clasp hands, and Holmes leads a shambling Watson towards the church.
The guests are in their places as the bride makes her way up the aisle.
Everyone gets to their feet, including Mrs. Hudson, who taps a slumbering Holmes on the shoulder.
He comes to and rises to his feet.
A spruced-up Watson is standing beside him.
Holmes quickly adjusts Watson's tie and buttonhole, before Watson lifts the bride's veil.
She smiles up at him, and sees he's sporting a black eye and generally looks knocked about.
She looks over at Holmes, who winks reassuringly.
Watson places the ring on his new wife's finger, and they share a kiss.
Holmes looks down thoughtfully.
As Watson and his bride leave the church, they walk beneath the raised swords of several guardsmen.
Standing alone by the latched gate of the churchyard, Holmes applauds.
Holmes disappears through the gate and cranks his car's engine into life.
Moriarty's bearded agent is leaning against the side of the car.
The agent rolls a cigarette.
The agent steps aside and Holmes pulls away in a cloud of smoke.
Kings College, Cambridge.
Puffing on his pipe, Holmes makes his way across a quadrangle and goes into a building.
Holmes walks into a room where a gramophone is playing.
Moriarty and another man, Matthew, are there.
Moriarty looks round at him.
As Moriarty sits at his desk and signs the book, Holmes walks behind him and looks at a blackboard covered in calculations.
Moriarty looks up.
Holmes spots a book by the blackboard.
Holmes sees a dying plant nearby.
Moriarty hands the signed asteroid book back to Holmes.
They shake hands.
Holmes steps away and looks at the signature.
Moriarty gets up.
A flashback to Irene.
Irene's tea was poisoned.
He shows Holmes her bloodstained handkerchief.
Moriarty sits at a chessboard and picks up the black queen.
Holmes looks down thoughtfully.
He picks up Irene's handkerchief from the chessboard.
Holmes glares at him then makes to go.
Moriarty stares after Holmes then turns his attention back to the chessboard.
He moves the black queen.
Watson and his wife, Mary, are at the station.
They make their way to a waiting train.
Watson notices some soldiers.
They step into their cabin, champagne is on ice.
Watson sees a woman with the conductor in the corridor.
He turns back to Mary.
Smiling, she hands it over.
The train speeds through the night, clouds of steam and smoke belch from its funnel as it races along.
In their compartment, Watson and Mary are kissing.
They move apart.
A steward with a bottle of wine enters.
As the steward slides the door shut, the lights go out.
The steward draws a knife and lunges at Watson.
Watson grapples with the steward.
Mary gets Watson's gun and aims it at the steward's hand.
Watson opens the exterior compartment door.
Watson grabs the steward by the scruff and throws him off the train.
Mary sits and Watson takes the gun from her hand.
He puts his finger to his lips and then opens the door to the corridor.
He sees the woman, who was wanting to use the onboard lavatory while at the station, punch a couple of the soldiers then shoot two more.
The woman is Holmes in a bad disguise.
As Watson holds off the soldiers in the corridor, Holmes looks out of the open exterior door.
Holmes shoves her out of the carriage as they go over a bridge.
Watson shuts the door to the corridor and sees Mary has gone.
Watson looks out of the window then at Holmes.
As Watson grapples with Holmes, he rips his blouse off.
The soldiers come in.
One aims a rifle at Watson.
Holmes remembers back to earlier.
He applies lipstick in the corridor and the conductor walks past him as he stands outside the lavatory.
Watson watches the exchange.
In it, Holmes looks through a grill into the next carriage and sees the soldiers readying their guns.
He takes the chain of the cistern then removes one of the taps from the basin.
He uses the tap to open the cover on a gas valve.
Holmes decants phosphorous into a container then opens the gas valve.
He leaves the loo just as the train enters a tunnel.
In the darkness, Holmes placed phosphorous dust over the soldier.
He replaces a cartridge in one of the men's bandoliers with his lipstick and shoves the lipstick case into the muzzle of one of the men's rifles.
In the present, the soldier with the rifle pulls the trigger.
The gun explodes, setting fire to the other soldier's phosphorous dusted clothes.
Holmes sets a booby-trap on the door.
He removes his skirt.
Bare-chested, Holmes climbs out of the compartment and shims along the side of the carriage.
Watson follows.
They edge their way along the train.
A soldier makes his way into Watson's compartment, unwittingly triggering the booby-trapped grenade.
It goes off, throwing the soldier off the train.
He steps into a compartment.
Holmes looks into the corridor.
He shoos the elderly couple out of their compartment.
Watson closes the exterior door and sees Holmes is lying down.
He pulls Watson down beside him then lights a pipe.
A soldier opens a crate and takes out a Maxim machine gun.
The weapon is fixed onto its tripod and the belt-fed ammunition loaded into the breech.
The weapon is cocked.
Then the soldier opens fire.
Bullets rip through the walls of the first class compartments, showering Watson and Holmes with debris.
Holmes hands Watson a pistol.
The lipstick he put in the machine gun belt is fed into the breech, jamming the gun.
Watson shoots through the hole created by the machine gun bullets.
He hits a soldier who drops a grenade.
The soldier Watson hit realizes he's inadvertently pulled the pin out of the grenade which then dropped back into a bag full of grenades.
The grenades explode, blasting the train in two.
Watson and Holmes sit in the ruined lavatory of their carriage which is at the end of those still attached to the engine.
A flashback to her falling from the train.
Mycroft appears in a boat.
Holmes, whose face is covered in smeared lipstick and eye shadow, waits awkwardly for the answer.
Watson smiles ruefully at the mention of Paris.
The train rattles on through the night.
Black smoke belches from the funnels of a paddle-steamer as it leaves the white cliffs of Dover behind.
Watson and Holmes, now out of his disguise, are on the steamer's rear promenade deck.
Watson takes Irene's monogrammed handkerchief out of Sims' bag and glances over at Holmes.
Holmes takes the hanky and walks over to the railing.
He sniffs the hanky, inhaling its scent, as he looks out to sea.
Watson watches him closely.
Holmes looks down at the hanky then glances over his shoulder at Watson before casually tossing it over the side.
The paddle-steamer approaches the French coast.
A flier posted on a wall in Paris advertises a lecture by Professor Moriarty.
In a grand building, Moriarty is signing a copy of his book on asteroids for an admirer.
He hands it back to the man.
As another man comes up to have his book signed, the bearded agent sits beside Moriarty and passes him a note.
Moriarty looks at the note then puts it in a leather covered notebook before signing another book.
He turns to his agent as he autographs the book.
The agent takes two tickets from his jacket pocket.
The agent goes.
Outside, he wanders over to a rough looking bloke leaning against a wall.
The man heads off.
As bearded, middle-aged Meinhard gets out of a carriage outside of the Addrelle de Fleuve.
The rough looking bloke is hovering nearby with another identical man.
They keep an eye on Meinhard.
At a gypsy camp in the countryside, men practice their horse riding skills.
Holmes and Watson drive up on the outskirts of the camp in an open carriage.
A man comes over to them and holds their horse.
Watson calls over to a group of men then nudges Holmes, who appears to be asleep.
The gypsy man indicates a bearded man holding a goose.
The gypsies surround Holmes and Watson who smile politely.
The man takes it.
Then Watson knocks him cold.
The atmosphere becomes more strained.
A man opens his jacket, revealing a knife.
Sim pushes through the crowd, holding her bag which the gypsies have taken off Holmes.
The man Watson punched watches them as they eat a meal.
Watson looks up from his bowl and frowns.
Holmes glares at him.
Sim hands the drawings to the gypsy man who passes them to Holmes.
Holmes licks the red stain.
Holmes turns conspiratorially to Watson.
Holmes drinks from a proffered bottle as Watson gets up.
Outside, Watson dances energetically with a gypsy.
Sim joins in too.
Holmes watches and twitches his shoulders in time with the music.
At the castle home of Mycroft Holmes.
Mary walks into a study and finds him completely naked.
She takes it and reads it as Carruthers goes.
She takes the telegram and goes.
Stanley, the dithering ancient butler, turns around.
Paris under a leaden sky.
On a side street, a carriage, with Imperata stenciled on the side, pulls up.
The back is opened and a man ushers Sim, Holmes, and Watson from it.
They go into a building and pass two men wheeling a coat-of -arms shaped cake on a trolley.
The man leads them into a busy kitchen.
They make their way past chefs, busy at worktops, until they're stopped and searched by some other man.
Holmes notes an empty baking tray and some royal icing in gold leaf laurels together with a shield and a newspaper on a worktop.
He, Sim, and Watson are ushered down some stairs.
They emerge in a basement room.
A man sits at a table with his back to them.
The man, Ravache, is eating.
Watson sniffs a piece of paper.
Holmes and Sims sit.
Ravache takes a gulp of red wine and wipes his mouth with a napkin.
Ravache sips his wine.
Ravache shoots himself in the head.
Upstairs in the kitchen, his colleagues hear the shot and run off to investigate.
Holmes gets to his feet.
As Watson fires warning shots up the stairs, Holmes stares into an alcove.
Holmes spots a bit of material, a piece of bloodstained wood, a dollop of mortar, and a stain.
In his mind's eye, he sees mortar being churned and some spilt.
A carpenter cuts his finger, spilling blood.
Sacks are used as counterweights and a door handle is disguised as a coat peg.
A mechanism turns.
The workmen open a bottle of wine and some is spilled, staining the floor.
Holmes eyes the coat pegs.
He pulls on one of the coat pegs and a secret door opens.
Watson draws a sword from a stick and cuts the rope holding the sandbag.
The door swings shut behind them.
Holmes lights a flaming brand.
They look around the secret room and see a printing press and, on a table, sticks of dynamite.
Holmes eyes a plaque reading, Imperata.
Leading the way with his flaming torch, Holmes heads off down a dark corridor.
They go up a flight of stone steps, push a metal grill open and emerge on a dark street beneath a bridge.
They climb up onto the bridge and look out towards the opera house.
As they get close to the building, they push their way through crowds outside.
Inside, the performance is underway.
Sim, Holmes, and Watson enter the opera house through the stage door.
As they make their way backstage, they don't notice Moriarty's agent lurking in the shadows.
He gets up and, puffing on a dark cigarette, watches them go by before heading off in the opposite direction.
Holmes, Watson, and Sim walk past stagehands in the wings.
A couple of them try to stop them but they ignore the men's protests.
Holmes spots a plaque, Imperata, and thinks back to the dynamite beside the one in the secret room.
He imagines a bomb with a timing device beneath the stage.
Holmes walks over to one of the stagehands and flings him out of the way.
He gestures to Sim who tosses him a knife.
Holmes climbs under the stage and cuts a hole in a sheet of canvas.
He looks up and sees the word Imperata is part of the print on which the statue of Commendatore is standing.
Holmes is now inside the plinth.
Onstage, the Commendatore points a finger at.
Holmes peals away a backing cloth from the word Imperata.
Inside the plinth he finds a black chess piece concealed in the O.
He picks the chess piece up and sees Moriarty sitting in a box, watching the performance and possibly him, through a pair of opera glasses.
Holmes rips his way out of the back of the statue of the Commendatore and hurries across the stage to the wings where Sim and Watson are waiting beside a couple of actors in demon costumes.
He shows Watson the chess piece.
In the auditorium, Moriarty watches the performance, apparently spellbound.
Holmes, Watson, and Sim hurry into the street and make their way towards the Hotel de Triomphe.
The cake containing the bomb is being delivered to the hotel by the rough looking man and his identical accomplice.
In a meeting room at the hotel, Meinhard is making a speech.
Holmes and the others race towards the hotel.
Meinhard turns to look at the cake, which explodes.
Out in the street, Holmes and the others see a massive fireball erupt from the hotel.
In the opera house, Don Giovanni throws himself at the feet of the Commendatore statue.
Moriarty watches, transfixed, as demons surround Don Giovanni.
Holmes, Watson, and Sim run into the hotel and survey the carnage.
The demons close in around Don Giovanni.
The statue sinks into the ground.
In the hotel, Holmes finds Meinhard's body and looks at a ring on the little finger of the dead man's left hand.
Looking around, Holmes spots a bullet hole in a wall.
He pulls a small telescope out of his jacket and, through it, sees another bullet hole in a window nearby.
Beyond it, in the distance, there's a statue on top of a building.
Later, he, Watson, and Sim are up on the building, beneath the statue.
Holmes imagines a rifle.
Moriarty's agent is the sniper.
He wedges it in an ornate carving.
Holmes recalls entering the opera house.
Moran loads his Martini action rifle and aims it at Meinhard.
He takes his shot.
Day, the Eifel Tower.
Sim and Watson are sitting at a table outside a cafe at the foot of the tower.
Holmes, disguised as an old man, is sitting at a nearby table, listening.
Once Moriarty and Moran have gone, he leaps to his feet and dashes off down the back staircase.
He pulls off his wig and tosses it to a waiter.
Nearly colliding with another waiter, he dons a bellhop's uniform and removes his mustache just in time to intercept Moriarty and Moran in the lobby.
Sim takes Watson's hat.
She exchanges it for a battered old hat.
Holmes eyes the horse uncomfortably.
Watson pulls her face.
Sim, Watson, and a group of gypsy men ride through the forest.
Trailing in their wake comes Holmes, astride a very small pony.
The gypsies gallop on through the woods.
Holmes bumps along uncomfortably on the pony's saddle.
They stop a little way away from a border post.
Holmes watches through this telescope as troops stop people crossing.
Holmes looks disgruntled at the prospect of more riding.
He passes the gypsies as they have a break.
The gypsies stare after him as he trots by.
They gallop after him, catching him up.
As the gypsies walk the horses along a narrow track, one of them rears up.
They look up and see Holmes astride his pony on a higher track above them.
They follow him.
It's getting dark as they arrive beside a lake.
A town sits in the distance across the water.
Holmes talks to Watson as they stand beside the horses.
Sim, Watson, and Holmes exchange nods, then Holmes and Watson head up.
Holmes and Watson crouch low in the darkness as six armed guards march past.
All clear, they get to their feet.
Holmes pulls a face.
Taking the folded-up piece of paper from Holmes, Watson sets off.
Holmes crouches and takes another sheet of paper from his pocket.
He starts to write.
Across the complex, Watson lurks outside the closed telegraph office.
He glances around, then kicks the door in.
At the munitions factory, Holmes climbs over a barred gate and leaps to the ground.
In the telegraph office, Watson pushes open a glass-paned door.
Holmes scurries through the munitions factory yard.
He hides behind a wooden beam.
People walk past the telegraph office.
Watson dons a cap.
He taps out the message given him by Holmes.
Holmes walks along the side of a row of wooden crates.
He passes a rack of large, upright mortar shells.
He goes to a metal door and opens it.
He steps inside, stops and stares.
The room contains a number of worktables with machinery.
He strolls through it and notices something.
He stops by a shell and screws open its tip.
He lifts it up.
A glass container is attached to the metal tip.
It contains a yellow liquid.
Holmes sniffs it and puts it down.
Holmes continues to wander through the machine room and comes to another metal door with a glass window in it.
He peers through it into a command center.
An operations tabletop is covered by a map and models on blocks.
One is a model machine gun, another a sniper rifle.
He sees drawings of a semiautomatic pistol, a revolver, and an automatic light artillery gun.
On the wall map, an image of a cannon times 35,and an image of a heavy gun times 15,Watson leaves the telegraph office and comes down the steps.
Holmes enters another room.
He closes the door and walks across a balcony towards a metal rail.
He leans on the rail and gazes down into the dark interior.
In the dim light, he sees row upon row of artillery shells.
The lights come on, and he sees the full extent of the number of shells.
Holmes turns to Moran and throws down his pistol.
Holmes sees a stack of long-barreled pistols.
He tosses a magazine to Holmes and nods for him to load it.
The identical thugs come up behind Holmes.
One grabs the gun.
The other holds a piece of cloth over Holmes' mouth and nose.
His eyes close, and he sinks to the floor.
Watson returns to the spot where he left Holmes.
He finds a note pinned to a crate and reads it.
He turns it over.
He opens up the folded paper to see Rene's sketch of a tall tower.
He glances up at a lit tower nearby, then moves off.
A small glass with liquid in it is held under Holmes' nose.
He stirs.
Watson goes nearer to the tower.
Moriarty turns to Holmes.
A guard had apprehended Watson.
Moran shot the guard to get an aim on Watson.
A meat hook is slammed into Holmes' shoulder, and he's hauled up on a rope.
Moriarty lowers a stylus on a gramophone record.
He holds a telephone in front of the horn speaker.
The music is broadcast over a speaker into the yard, where Watson cowers in the darkness as Moran keeps a rifle trained from a walkway high up on the tower.
Moriarty accompanies the singer.
Clutching the rope attached to the hook in his shoulder, Holmes is swinging about a meter off the floor.
Moriarty pushes him.
Moran shoots at Watson.
The bullet ricochets off a metal pole.
Moriarty spins Holmes around.
Watson breaks cover.
Moran shoots and Watson ducks behind a platform.
Holmes' screams are audible over the tenor.
Watson climbs a ladder on the platform.
Holmes spins in the air.
Moran takes aim.
His shot passes through a narrow gap between pieces of machinery, just missing Watson.
Moriarty indicates to a henchman to lower Holmes to the ground.
Watson holds his hat up to the gap in the machinery, and Moran puts a bullet straight through it.
Watson looks around and sees a pair of ear defenders hanging on the wall.
Moriarty rolls his eyes wearily and bends over Holmes, gripping the meat hook embedded in his shoulder with one hand and Holmes' uninjured arm with the other.
Moran watches the piece of machinery.
A cover falls off it.
It's an artillery cannon.
Moran retreats.
Moran desperately climbs down the tower to escape from the cannon Watson is operating.
Watson fires the cannon at the tower.
It collapses, smashing through the roof of the building where Holmes and Moriarty are.
As the dust settles, Watson sits up on the platform wearing the ear defenders.
He climbs down from the platform and runs over to the now ruined building.
He searches through the debris.
He finds Holmes half-buried under the rubble.
He pulls him up and removes the meat hook from his shoulder.
Holmes looks up at him.
Watson helps Holmes up and supports him as the pair make their way back across the factory floor.
They pass several Howitzers, which stand, ready to be shipped out of the factory.
They arm themselves.
Watson has a machine gun, Holmes a pistol.
Watson leads the way.
In the ruins, Moran frees Moriarty from the rubble.
Sim spots Holmes and Watson.
She runs on ahead of them.
Holmes sees some guards.
Watson opens fire.
Watson lays down covering fire as Sim and the gypsies lead the way out of the factory.
As Watson retreats and reloads, Holmes shoots a guard dead.
He reloads and follows the others out into a rail yard.
One of the gypsies is killed by the rough-looking twins.
Holmes and Watson return fire, killing them both.
The raiders make their way to the perimeter wall of the rail yard and throw a rope over the top of it.
Before they can escape, they're spotted by the guards, who open fire, forcing the fugitives to take cover.
Watson returns fire with his machine gun, but the guards respond with a heavy-caliber Gatling gun, forcing Watson and the others to take cover behind some crates.
A huge artillery piece is turned on them.
The shell goes over their heads and blasts a hole in the perimeter wall.
Holmes and the others run for it, out into the woods beyond.
In the distance, a railway line runs through the trees and a train is approaching.
The captain of the guards rallies his troops and sends them through the breach in the perimeter wall to chase the fugitives down.
As the guards shoot through the trees at the fugitives, others in the rail yard adjust the elevation on the mortars and open fire.
Explosions erupt around Holmes, Watson, and the others.
They keep running, heading towards the railway line.
Giving chase, Moran picks up a rifle and takes a shot at Watson.
The bullet clips his right flank, but he keeps running.
Bullets from the guards rip chunks out of the tree trunks.
Holmes returns fire with his pistol, hitting a guard in the chest.
Massive explosions erupt amongst the trees as Sims sprints forward.
The guards give chase.
Moran takes another shot, hitting one of the gypsies.
Sims sees the man go down but keeps running.
Little Hansel is a heavy-caliber artillery piece.
A massive shell is loaded into the breach.
The elevation of the barrel is adjusted, and a powder charge is loaded.
Final adjustments to the barrel elevation are made, and the gun crew chief gives the order to fire.
A lever is pulled, a ratchet releases, and the powder charge is ignited.
The massive gun recoils violently as a huge ball of flame erupts from its muzzle.
The shock wave blows one of the gun crew's hat off.
In the woods, the shell rips through a tree trunk, splintering it into matchwood.
It fells another tree just behind Holmes and misses him by a whisker.
The shell explodes ahead of him, shattering the trees, filling the air with needle-sharp splinters.
The epic blast blows the fugitives off their feet.
The guards keep coming, closing in.
Holmes lies still for a few moments, temporarily stunned by the blast.
As dirt falls on his face, he comes to.
He and Watson get to their feet.
Watson immediately tackles a guard.
As fierce hand-to-hand fighting breaks out, Moran runs towards the fray.
A gypsy shoots a guard just before a mortar shell goes off beside Holmes.
As he leans against a tree, a guard comes at him.
The bullet hits the tree, then the guard tries to bayonet Holmes.
Holmes punches the guard away and reloads the guard's rifle.
He hands it to Watson, who uses it to shoot Moran as he appears over a rise.
Holmes, Watson, Sim, and the surviving gypsies run to the train and scramble into one of the boxcars.
As they're doing so, Moran starts to sit up.
He examines his injury.
As Holmes climbs up into the boxcar, Moran gets his gun and takes several deep breaths.
He loads his rifle and takes aim.
He shoots one of the gypsies as he tries to board the train.
One of the other gypsies watches from the boxcar as his dead comrade is left behind.
Moran stares after the train as it carries Holmes and the others to safety.
The track winds along a wooded valley.
Morning, the train makes its way across a snow-covered plain with craggy mountains in the distance.
Sim sits cradling Holmes in her arms as Watson stitches a wound in his own flank.
Holmes closes his eyes.
Sim regards Holmes with growing concern.
She holds her hand in front of his mouth.
Concerned, Watson goes over to her and examines Holmes, who's completely unresponsive.
A gypsy does so.
Watson pumps away at Holmes' chest.
He thumps his chest.
Still no response.
Watson pounds Holmes' chest again.
Sim pulls Watson away from Holmes and hugs him tight.
The gypsy pats Watson on the shoulder.
Watson looks down sadly at Holmes, who lies motionless in the boxcar.
Something suddenly occurs to him.
Watson opens the leather pouch which Holmes gave him and takes out a vial and hypodermic needle.
Watson uncaps the needle and plunges it into Holmes' chest.
It appears to have no effect.
Suddenly, Holmes opens his eyes wide and stares around wildly.
He leaps to his feet.
Holmes drinks the contents of the vial Watson handed him.
Watson yanks out the large splinter of wood.
Holmes relaxes a little, as Watson examines his foot.
Watson smiles wistfully for a moment.
Watson tosses down a medical instrument and looks down thoughtfully.
Watson exchanges a surprised look with Sim.
Watson regards Holmes for a moment then leans back against the side of a box car with a resigned expression.
In Switzerland, an imposing castle is perched on a mountainside.
The building saddles a massive waterfall.
Watson and Sim join Mycroft for dinner in a snow-covered lunch.
Holmes puts it down.
Delegates are arriving at the castle, expanding their back falls, which stumble hundreds of feet vertically down the mountainside.
A horse-drawn sleigh arrives at the castle with Moriarty aboard.
He got an elegant figure and top hat and overcoat.
He gets out of the sleigh and goes into the castle.
The Maitre D' has a book containing photos of all the delegates.
He identifies and welcomes the new arrival.
Moriarty steps forward.
In a ballroom, elegant couples in evening wear or military dress uniform dance across the floor.
Holmes joins Mycroft, the others, and Watson at the edge of the dance floor.
They're all wearing white tie and tails.
Samantha is wearing a deep red dress.
Holmes holds his hand out.
Sim takes it.
They step onto the dance floor.
They and the other couples whirl around in circles across the floor.
Holmes looks a bit out of place, his face being unshaven and heavily bruised.
He observes the other people in the room.
A man's hand rests on the hill to the sword.
He observes details of the people in the ballroom.
A woman's necklace, a man's medals, a military man holding white glass, an eye cross spinning to a white uniform.
Holmes scans the faces of the people.
His eyes settle on the man in a black uniform.
He has a facial scar.
Holmes looked thoughtfully at Sim and steers her back over to Watson.
He gestures to Watson.
Arm and arm, they take to the dance floor.
He works on the man's face.
A man is chloroformed.
Watson nods.
Holmes walks over to a footman in Century costume including a white parted wig and handsome letter.
Footman nods and takes it.
Holmes leaves the ballroom.
Watson walks over to Sim and whispers in her ear.
She looks surprised.
Moriarty chats with a delegate, wearing an orange saf.
The footman approaches Moriarty and hands him Holmes' letter.
Moriarty reads it and looks around in concern.
Watson watches as Moriarty heads off.
The photographer.
Holmes is outside in a balcony, drinking from a hip flask.
The rocking back fall stumble into the darkness nearby.
Moriarty comes out and joins him.
Moriarty goes to a table and picks up a chess timing clock.
He puts the clock on another table beside a chessboard.
Holmes takes a seat in front of the board.
Moriarty fetches a blanket and puts it around Holmes' shoulders.
Moriarty picks up a second blanket and drapes it around his own shoulders.
Holmes and Moriarty both smile.
Then Moriarty's expression hardens.
He starts by moving a white pawn.
He sets the time clock.
Inside, Watson and Sim move amongst the guests.
Outside on the balcony, Holmes advances a second black pawn on the game of chess.
Inside, Watson and Sim meet up again.
They look over at the delegates.
Holmes' knight takes one of Moriarty's pawns.
Moriarty advances a bishop.
A man smokes a cigar.
Sim studies the faces of the potential assassins.
Hyperemic needle is concealed inside an especially-adapted Winchester cartridge case.
Watson glances around the photographer about to take the delegates' photo.
Watson deliberately knocks a tray of drinks out of a footman's hands.
As it crashes onto the marble floor, everyone looks around in surprise except one man in the corner.
Watson peers at the man's hairline and notes that he drops his cigar.
Sim stares at the man as he steps away from the delegate he was talking to.
She looks over at Watson, who nods.
The man reaches inside his jacket with his left hand just as Sim steps up to him.
Another man continues assembling the hyperemic cartridge.
He shoves her aside and draws a gun.
Watson tackles him as he takes a shot.
Mycroft steps forward and his arms ready.
Soldiers drag him away.
The hyperemic cartridge is loaded into a weapon.
As Rene is dragged away, Moran surreptitiously shoots him with a hyperemic cartridge fired from a gun hidden in his cane.
Something occurs to Watson.
He runs out of the ballroom and joins the soldiers guarding Rene.
He's collapsed.
The soldiers allowed him to tend to Rene who's convulsing on the floor.
Watson quickly finds a hyperemic dart lodged in Rene's leg.
He pulls it out and tastes the compound it's injected.
Moran watches with a smile.
Sim runs to Rene.
Watson spots Moran leaving.
He turns back to Rene who's fading fast.
On the balcony.
Holmes looks troubled.
Unsettled, Holmes sits back in his chair.
Moriarty shrugs the blanket of her shoulders and gets up on the table.
Holmes removes his blanket and looks at the chessboard.
Moriarty feels for his notebook and runs his thumb over the top line in his pocket.
Smiling, he turns back to Holmes.
Moriarty takes out the notebook which Holmes managed to switch in the munition factory.
Mary assists Inspector Lestrade.
Moriarty steps up close and glowers at Holmes.
Catching his pipe between his teeth, Holmes holds up his lighter.
Moriarty smiles and takes it.
He lights Holmes' pipe for him.
Holmes imagines him fighting.
They take blows and Holmes lands a punch on Moriarty's face.
In Moriarty's imagination.
Holmes punches Moriarty.
He hits Holmes' shoulder.
They stamp at each other's feet then trade more blows.
Moriarty works on Holmes' injured shoulder.
He throws him up onto the balcony balustrade.
Moriarty punches then elbows Holmes in the chest.
He starts to push Holmes off the balustrade towards a rocking back falls.
He lets go of Holmes who falls from the balustrade and plummets into the void along with icy waters of the falls.
Moriarty raises his arms victoriously.
In reality, the two men are still standing face to face.
They both chuckle.
Holmes blows ash and spot from the bulbous pipe into Moriarty's face then wraps his arms around him.
He vexes his feet against the chess table.
Just as Watson steps out onto the balcony, Holmes closes his eyes and pushes backwards, propelling himself and Moriarty over the edge of the balustrade.
Stunned, Watson stares blankly as they disappear from view then closes his eyes.
In slow motion, Holmes and Moriarty tumble past the falls.
Moriarty's mouth is open in a scream.
Holmes, by contrast, looks really peaceful with his eyes closed.
As they plummet, the two men separate and disappeared into the foaming white water.
Watson slowly walks across the balcony.
He looks over the edge of the balustrade at the terrifying drop and raging waterfall.
Mourners file into a packed church.
Sitting at the front are Lestrade, Carruthers, Mycroft, Mary, and Mrs. Hudson.
Watson sits alone at the back of the church.
Sim joins him.
In his study, Watson sits typing his memoirs.
Mary comes in with a small package.
She regards him thoughtfully.
He frowns thoughtfully at it.
Watson looks at the package which has arrived.
He unwraps the package and finds it contains a small wooden box.
Watson slides the lid open ad stares at the content.
He takes out Mycroft's personal oxygen respirator.
His eyes rove in thought.
He steps out of the room.
As soon as he's gone, an armchair over by the wall appears to spring to life.
It's Holmes wearing one of his camouflage outfits.
He removes his mask and hushes the bulldog before going over to Watson's desk.
The shadow of a boy cycling a bike with a dumpy alien in the handlebar basket passes in front of a full moon.
A small robot races back and forth through long grass, under a cloudy sky.
The robot stops and blinks.
Bad Robot.
Sparks shower in the Lillian Steel Foundry.
A detached house on a snowy street.
A police car is on the drive, and a boy, Joe Lamb, sits on a swing in the garden.
He's about 14, and glumly looks down at a locket that he's holding.
A wake is being held inside the house.
Mr. and Mrs. Kaznyk look at Joe through the window.
Some other boys stand by a buffet table.
An American yellow Coupe with a black vinyl roof pulls up outside the house.
From the swing, Joe watches as a good-looking man with shoulder length blonde hair gets out of the car and walks towards the house.
The man, Lewis, glances around at Joe before adjusting his hair and going on into the house.
Joe watches as his dad, Jack, bundles Lewis outside.
Jack, a dark haired man of about 40, shoves Lewis into the back of the police car on the drive.
He looks up and sees an apprehensive Joe watching him.
He gets in the patrol car and drives it off with its lights flashing.
Joe watches as it disappears up the road.
He looks back down at the locket he's holding and snaps it shut.
Excited pupils spill out of Lillian Middle School as it closes for the summer holidays.
Bicycles are taken out of a bike rack, and Joe is amongst the throng of pupils.
One of the boys from the wake, Charles, comes over to him.
Joe looks shocked.
In it one of the boys, Martin, is playing a detective character.
Another, Cary, a zombie.
Martin pulls a gun, but Cary knocks it from his hand.
They tussle, and Martin shoves Cary back onto some spikes on the wall, impaling him.
Blood spills from Cary's mouth.
Joe and Charles are watching it.
Joe goes, and Mr. and Mrs. Kaznyk exchange a look.
Outside Joe cycles across the quiet residential street to his own house.
Jack's patrol car is on the drive.
Joe goes inside and makes his way into the kitchen.
Joe makes his way into the living room.
Joe finds his father weeping in the bathroom.
He shuts the door on Joe who looks shocked.
Later, Jack and Joe are at a table in Carol's Diner.
As they eat, Jack hands Joe a leaflet.
Joe looks unconvinced.
Jack takes a pull on a bottle of beer.
He regards Jack sincerely, then turns his attention to the pamphlet.
Jack looks slightly disorientated by the reply and considers how to respond.
Joe gives Jack a cool unconvinced look, then returns his attention to the pamphlet which features pictures of pumped-up boys apparently having a fantastic time playing baseball.
Jack notices that Joe is holding the locket in the palm of his left hand.
It's 12:PM as Joe sits in his bedroom painting a model monster.
Joe and his friends have gathered on a grassy bank.
The yellow Coupe that had pulled up outside the house for the wake draws up.
It's being driven by a teenage blonde girl, Alice.
She turns away moodily and shakes her head.
She glares at him and considers.
Joe grins.
Joe offers Alice a candy.
He's delighted when she takes it.
She glances at him in the rear view mirror, and his smile slips.
The car pulls up outside an isolated railway station, and the kids get out.
Joe does Alice's makeup.
He starts gently sponging it on.
She ties her hair back from her face.
Joe gently applies Alice's makeup with a sponge.
Joe stops sponging on the makeup and stares at her uncertain of how to respond.
She does so, and he dabs makeup onto her eyelids.
Cary's fireworks.
Alice's eyes fill with un-shed tears.
Joe is spellbound by her performance.
Playing the detective, Martin stares at her.
Alice slips out of character.
Martin wipes a tear.
Charles runs across the station platform and looks at an approaching train.
The boys break into a panic, scramble.
The camera is loaded.
As the train approaches, they prepare to film.
Joe and Preston smile.
Joe sees a pickup pull onto the tracks ahead of the train.
The vehicles collide.
The camera is knocked over.
The freight train barrels through the station.
Alice stares at it.
The train derails.
The tracks, one careens through the station building, smashing it to match wood.
Electrical explosions go off around the station and trucks hurtle through the air.
The kids flee frantically through the debris as explosions mushroom around them.
More trucks and carriages fly off the line and collide with one another.
A tanker is thrown through the air and explodes as it hits the ground.
Joe runs past the flaming debris, a piece of which is flung into the air, then crashes down just in.
He sees a warning sign on it.
As he turns to run, a massive explosion erupts from the debris, throwing him to the ground.
He looks up, then gets to his feet.
He looks at a carriage lying on its side.
It's racked by a series of explosions.
Joe clasps the locket tightly in his left hand.
He watches as an explosion throws a chunk of the carriage high into the air.
It crashes into the Earth a little distance away.
Noises emanate from the stricken carriage almost as if some angry beast were charging around inside it.
On the remains of the platform, the Cinay camera runs out of film.
The yellow Coupe, still largely unscathed, sits in the middle of the devastation.
Joe makes his way past it, looking for the others.
He climbs up onto some twisted railway tracks.
He sees Preston.
Thumbs up.
Joe spots a blood stain.
Joe walks slowly towards the ominous blood stain.
The others gather round.
Alice appears a little way behind them.
Seeing her, Joe smiles.
Joe turns back to the blood stained wreckage.
He retrieves his makeup box.
Alice sees the locket he's holding.
He quickly stuffs it in his pocket.
Joe picks up one of the strange white cubes which have spilled from the wreckage and pockets it before joining the others on top of a wrecked carriage.
They have a good view across the devastation.
Joe points to the mangled remains of the white pickup truck.
They get down from the carriage.
There's a guy at the wheel of the pickup.
Alice approaches the un-moving black guy.
The boys watch as Alice draws closer to him.
She touches his arm and it hangs limply.
A document spills from his hand.
Alice picks it up and opens it as the boys crowd round.
It's a map.
Dr. Woodward grabs the map.
He sits up stiffly.
He looks round at the kids.
Woodward pulls out a revolver.
People are coming.
The kids flee.
Alice runs to the Coupe.
The boys salvage their stuff including the camera.
The boys run back to the car and they all scramble in.
Alice drive them away as a large score of men in military uniforms brandishing guns and torches arrive on the scene.
The soldiers stare after the car.
One of the soldiers picks up a discarded Super 8 film box and studies it.
He looks up thoughtfully.
In the car.
Back in town, the boys get out of the car.
Alice hands Joe the white cube he took from the crash site.
Their faces grimed from the explosions, Alice and Joe regard each other for a moment.
Then Alice gets into the Coupe's driving seat and heads off.
Joe and the others watch her go.
At home, Joe sits in the bath, clutching the white cube, which has a knobbly surface.
He stares thoughtfully into the distance.
Seen from a hillside, the lights of Lillian twinkle in the darkness.
The next morning, Joe is asleep in bed.
Later, he puts out dog food.
Clutching a script, he runs over to the Kaznyk's house.
Joe joins Charles, who's watching the TV.
They cycle by a road.
Joe looks down awkwardly.
The old yellow Coupe pulls up and Louis gets out.
Joe and Alice watch him intensely.
Louis walks over to them.
Louis removes his shades.
Louis, who has heavy sideburns, steps inside the house, then immediately comes back out.
Alice follows Louis back into the house, leaving an awkward looking Joe standing on the veranda.
She comes back out to Joe.
Joe looks surprised and steps towards her.
Filming a scene, Martin shoots zombie Cary as Alice watches.
They're filming with the wrecked train in the distance behind them.
Joe takes the camera.
He sets the camera up to film the crash site in the distance.
News crew helicopters hover in the air above the scene.
The film makers look down at the destruction.
Joe looks down with a troubled expression.
At the crash site, Air Force personnel are busy clearing up the cargo of strange white cubes.
They repack them in crates, which are, in turn, loaded onto military lorries.
Joe's dad Jack is there with Air Force Colonel Nelec.
The colonel goes.
Unsatisfied, Jack looks around and sees men carefully making a plaster of Paris mold.
Back at the police station, he talks to Sheriff Pruitt.
The sheriff goes, leaving Jack looking nonplussed.
The sheriff drives his car into a gas station and pulls up by the pumps.
He goes into the shop and finds the clerk playing with a new Sony Walkman.
Breen can't hear him, the sheriff lobs a candy bar.
The sheriff pays for his petrol and the candy bar, then goes back outside.
He fills his patrol car and opens the candy bar.
His attention is caught by some odd noises and he looks around.
A pack of dogs runs across the filling station forecourt.
Surprised, the sheriff looks around.
His patrol car starts malfunctioning.
He goes to check it out.
Hearing something move nearby, the sheriff goes to investigate.
He keeps a hand on his gun.
He nearly leaps out of his skin as a dumpster flies past him.
In the shop, Breen is oblivious as his Walkman drowns out all the sound.
Over his shoulder, the sheriff's car jolts violently.
Suddenly, the lights flicker and Breen looks round.
He pulls his headphones off as he looks out of the window.
The lights continue flickering.
Looking apprehensive, Breen slowly makes his way outside.
The front of the sheriff's car has been smashed in by a violent impact.
Breen walks around the wrecked patrol car.
Steam rises from its ruptured radiator.
Breen picks the petrol pump's nozzle out of a large pool of gasoline on the ground.
Hearing something behind him, he turns around and looks completely terrified.
He stumbles and runs back into the shop.
Something comes after him.
It smashes the windows, knocking him to the floor, then grabs him, dragging him back.
Next day, Joe is making Alice up as one of the un-dead.
Alice gives Joe a questioning look.
She nods pensively.
The lights in the room flickered.
Alice adopts a dead-eyed zombie persona and lurches slowly towards Joe.
Waving her arms around jerkily, she draws closer.
She lunges at him, pretending to bite his neck.
They regard each other, smiling.
Alice goes.
Charles had been watching them.
Jack is at the wrecked gas station.
The manager of the station, Eddie, is with him.
The sheriff's car is missing from the scene, but fragments of its lights remain.
On a used car lot, the engines have been stolen from all the cars.
Jack watches suspiciously as a convoy of military lorries passes by on the road.
In the back of one, he notes some airmen operating some kind of radio listening device.
As dusk approaches, Joe cycles beside a pylon in a field as he looks for his dog.
He gets off his bike and looks around.
Back in town, Joe cycles up beside a community bulletin board and sticks a flyer on it.
As he looks at the board, something strikes him.
He takes a step back and sees that the entire board is covered in flyers for lost dogs of all shapes and sizes.
Joe returns home to find Jack at the dinner table with his other deputies, Tally, Mina, Rosko, Ross and Jay.
Joe drops a torch.
The cops look round.
The lights flicker.
Jack gets on his radio.
A telecom engineer's truck drives along a dark road.
Rooney is working on a power line outside a junkyard.
He works from the cherry picker on the back of his truck.
A noise emanates from the junkyard and he looks over at it for a moment, then gets back on with his job.
Bits of scrap fly up into the air from the junkyard.
Rooney watches with mounting concern as a huge hunk of junk sails overhead and lands in the road.
It's a cooker.
Rooney operates the controls for his cherry picker and gets it to raise him higher so that he can get a better view of the junkyard.
The activity in the yard appears to have stopped.
As he peers into the gloom, Rooney notices the headlights of his truck and the streetlight nearby start to flicker.
The cherry picker has stopped working.
Something suddenly lunges out of the trees and grabs him, jolting his truck and breaking the windscreen.
Jack is addressing a meeting of concerned locals.
Jack glares at Louis as one of the other deputies leads him away.
Joe and Alice are in his bedroom.
He frantically tries to tidy up.
He quickly hides an essay with a C minus grade.
Looking embarrassed, he picks up a model train carriage.
In her zombie makeup, Alice suddenly looks up at Joe.
He smiles.
Charles comes in.
Deputy Tally shows Jack a map.
Deputy Rosko pauses to tune in his radio.
The Air Force is searching the house the kids are filming in front of.
Jack drives up.
The kids watch uncertainly as Jack takes the camera.
Jack puts Joe in the back of his patrol car.
He goes over to talk to Colonel Nelec.
The Colonel's expression hardens.
Jack steps back over to the colonel.
Sitting in the patrol car, Joe watches as the two men shake hands.
Later, Joe and Jack return home.
With tears in his eyes, Joe glares at his father.
Jack glares back at him, struggling to contain his emotions.
Jack turns away and marches out of the house, leaving Joe looking bleak.
A tear rolls down his cheek and he wipes it away with his hand.
At dusk, Joe cycles up a steep hill and goes in through the gates of a cemetery at the top.
He cycles on between the headstones.
Joe sits silently staring into the distance.
He looks down at his mother's locket which he holds in his hand.
Hearing a noise, he looks up.
He gets to his feet and takes a torch from his rock sack.
He shines it on a building nearby.
Looking through a window, he can see earth being tossed about inside the building.
Spooked, he runs off.
Jack drives his patrol car through the gates of Lilian Air Field.
Inside the compound, his car is immediately surrounded by heavily armed soldiers.
Nelec sits at Woodward's bedside.
His face lacerated from the train crash, Woodward glares stonily back at the Colonel from his hospital bed.
Nelec leans in closer to him.
The Colonel gives him a hard stare and walks away from the bedside.
His aide, Overmyer, injects toxin into Woodward's drip, and he begins to convulse.
Overmyer watches this passionately as Woodward dies.
The Colonel stand with his back to the bed and waits for it to go quiet.
Back at home, Joe is awakened in the middle of the night by a knocking at his window.
He gets up.
He opens the window to Alice.
She climbs in through the window.
He takes her hand to help her down off the desk.
He tries the light.
A Cinay projector starts up.
Alice moves forward to watch the film.
The footage is of Joe as a baby with his mother.
He sucks on her locket as she holds him.
Footage of his first birthday.
His mother blows out a solitary candle on his cake.
She picks him up in her arms.
Now Joe is about three years old.
His mother measures his height against the wall.
She kisses a cut on his hand better.
Joe watches as the footage changes to him with his mother at Christmas.
On screen, she smiles as Joe holds up a present.
He watches somberly as on screen, his mother picks him up and plays with him in the garden.
She laughs into the camera.
Un-shed tears form in Alice's eyes as she watches.
Captured together on the home movie, Joe and his mother play together on some distant summer's day.
Joe waves at the camera.
Joe looks over at Alice.
She's sitting with her back to him.
Her shoulders heave and tears roll down her face.
She struggles to find the words.
Joe stares at her.
Alice watches the last bit of footage which is of Joe's mother pushing him on a swing.
The film runs out and spins around on the reel.
Joe and Alice see the rattling noises coming from the strange cube Joe took from the crash site.
It vibrates across the tabletop.
Alice wipes the tears from her eyes.
Joe picks up a pencil and gently prods the cube.
It continues vibrating.
He and Alice exchange a look.
The cube shoots of the table and smashes through the wall leaving a hole in the wall and a poster of the space shuttle that pinned to it.
Joe and Alice go over to the hole and peer through it.
The lights of the tomb and the water tower can be seen in the distance through it.
They exchange a look.
Later, Alice carefully slips her key into her front door and opens it.
She steps into the hall and puts the key in a dish on a side board.
She sees Louis sitting in the front room.
She goes in to him, and finds him smoking and drinking.
Wounded, she runs outside, grabs her bicycle and rides off.
Louis comes running out after her.
Fighting back tears, Alice cycles grimly on, Louis comes after her in the yellow Coupe.
She glances nervously over her shoulder as the V8 barrels after her.
She rounds a corner and the coupe clips the curb as it takes the corner.
Alice jams her brakes on and pulls a u-turn in the road.
She cycles back past Louis.
Taking his eye off the road, he careens in to the back of a parked car.
Hearing the impact, Alice stops and looks back.
As she stares at the wreck, she doesn't notice a massive creature moving behind her.
His face bloodied, Louis sits up in the driver's seat.
Alice turns around and sees the creature.
Louis looks in his rear view mirror.
He tries to get out of the car.
He tumbles out of the passenger door.
He runs back up the street and trips over Alice's bike.
Soldiers watch a colleague using a flamethrower.
Charles and Joe pick up their processed film.
As they cycle off past the town's water tower, a vast plume of smoke rises just outside the town.
Stuck in an indentation on the side of the water tower tank, is the vibrating cube.
Their footage from the night of the crash.
The footage of the crash is just clouds of smoke.
Joe stands beside a disconsolate Charles.
On screen the smoke is cleared and they see footage of a giant spider-like creature creeping out of a carriage.
Hearing the siren, they look around in confusion.
Joe stops the projector and breaks the film off.
Outside, there is chaos on the streets as people and military personnel hurry to and fro.
Joe and Charles walk down the street.
They see a huge pool of smoke rising up above the town.
Panicked families load their cars in preparation to evacuate.
Troops direct traffic and issue instructions.
Charles and Joe prepare to board a bus.
A convoy leaves town lead by several military vehicles.
They pass the military container lorries carrying the white cubes recovered from the crash site on their way into town.
The evacuation convoy heads out of town.
Charles and Joe are aboard one of the buses.
The convoy eventually arrives at Greenville Air Force Base.
The vehicles cue to get in through the east entrance.
Inside, the civilians disembark from the buses in a huge hanger.
The Air Force personnel shepherds them along.
Joe wanders through the hanger looking for Jack.
He sees Louis lying on a bed in a sick bay area.
He goes over to him.
Louis looks relieved.
Joe finds Charles, Preston, Martin, and Carrie.
To Donnie the camera shop guy.
Donnie looks around.
An armed guard opens the door.
The guard escorts him along a corridor.
He punches the guard out and takes his gun.
Now dressed in the guard's uniform and clutching his rifle, Jack trots along a corridor and makes his way through a couple of offices.
He looks outside and spots a fuel tanker nearby.
Jack shoots the tanker which explodes in a fireball.
Once Air Force personnel are distracted, Jack helps himself to a Jeep and drives off.
He motors along an un-metaled track running through open fields.
He pulls up near a grain silo and gets out of the Jeep.
He sees a convoy of vehicles traveling along an adjacent road.
Jack gets back in the Jeep.
Now on a main carriage way, he unwittingly motors past Donnie and Joe and the boys who are driving back to town.
Donnie takes a sharp right onto a rough track through the trees.
As it's getting dark, they arrive back into town.
They drive until Lillian Middle School.
The boys leave Donnie in the car park and scramble over a chain link fence.
They run to a storage trailer.
Joe begins prying a padlock on the trailer with the tire iron.
Martin opens it.
There are papers and rolls of film inside.
They break into a classroom.
A photo of him.
They look at the footage.
Scientists and military men look at the wreckage of something big.
Carrie puts a tape in a player.
On the film, Woodward is grabbed by a tentacle.
Air Force soldiers burst in on the boys.
In the car park, Donnie sits in the car smoking a joint, oblivious of the military activity around him.
The soldiers march the boys into a corridor.
Colonel Nelec approaches them.
He finds Carrie's explosives in his rock sack.
Nelec eyes Joe.
Overmyer finds his mother's locket on him and takes it.
The soldiers shepard the boys onto a bus in the car park.
Sitting in his car, Donnie watches as they're driven away.
He gets on his CB radio.
Still in Air Force uniform, Jack makes his way though the evacuation center.
A boy recognizes him.
Jack finds Preston reading a magazine.
The super eight footage of the alien.
On the bus the boys are in, Overmyer hands Colonel Nelec some paperwork.
The boys watch anxiously from a holding cell at the rear of the bus.
Something hit the side of the bus, jolting it over onto two wheels.
It continues along the road a short way like this before righting itself.
As it does so, one of its tires blows out.
The driver brings the bus to a grinding halt on a remote road.
A rifle.
Nelec hands the rifle to an apprehensive looking Overmyer.
The senior airman driving the bus hesitates before reluctantly obeying the order and opening the door.
Outside it's pitch dark.
Clutching the rifle, Overmyer cautiously makes his way along the aisle of the bus towards the open door.
As he nears the door, Overmyer stops.
A tentacle reaches into the bus and grabs Overmyer.
The boys watch in horror as it slaps him against the walls of the bus.
The rifle goes off hitting the window of the boys holding cell.
Overmyer is dragged outside.
Martin vomits.
The senior airman restarts the bus's engine and it lurches into life.
As he stamps on the throttle, the bus is tipped onto its side.
The boys pick themselves up.
Joe tries to open the back door.
In the main body of the bus, a technical sergeant has been knocked cold.
Nelec picks himself up.
The alien rocks the bus as Nelec gets on the radio.
Joe tries to open the holding cell door but it's locked.
Nelec comes to the door.
A tentacle reaches in and crushes the driver.
Joe pounds on a cracked window above them.
Nelec loads an assault rifle.
Joe breaks the window with his elbow and climbs out onto the side of the bus.
At the front, the giant spider like alien is busy trying to reach in to get Nelec.
Joe helps Martin out of the broken window followed by Charles, and then Carrie.
Nelec fires at the alien with the assault rifle as it forces its way into the bus.
The boys clamor down from the vehicle and run off the road to cover.
The alien closes in on Nelec apparently undeterred by the automatic fire.
Nelec runs out of ammunition.
The alien lunges at him with his needle sharp teeth.
Lying in a ditch, the boys watch as the alien leaps of the bus and disappears into the woods.
Air Force soldiers grab Louis in the evacuation center.
Joe retrieves his locket from Overmyer's body.
A car pulls up.
He clocks the red bus.
Joe drives Donnie's car back into town.
Donnie has nodded off.
A tank opens fire on them and Joe swerves to avoid the incoming round.
More tanks close in.
The boys get out of the car and flee.
A soldier into his radio.
The boys run.
They hurry through a back garden shoving a washing line out of their way.
They leap a fence then race through a gate onto the street.
They see a tank being overturned.
Soldiers flee from their own malfunctioning machines which randomly spray shells, missiles, and bullets around them.
The boys flee through a playground from an out of control tank.
They hurry up a hill and take refuge in a house as the tank smashes up the playground.
The boys hurry upstairs in the house.
Joe looks out of a window.
A shell strikes the house and the blast knocks the boys to the ground.
They get back up.
Charles is about to strap up Martin's leg, which has been broken in the explosion.
Joe and Cary run to the building in the cemetery, where Joe saw earth being thrown about.
They try all the doors, but they're firmly locked.
They break the doors open and step inside.
A tunnel leads into the Earth.
Cary unzips his bag.
A bunch of fireworks spill out.
Joe lights one of the sparklers and tosses it into the tunnel.
It falls about feet before touching the bottom.
They stand at the edge of the pit, looking down.
A Jeep motors along a quiet dark road.
Jack is driving.
Louis sits beside him.
A troubled expression on his face, Louis looks over at Jack.
Jack keeps his eyes unflinchingly on the road ahead, but deep emotions boil beneath the surface.
Louis looks over at Jack, who gives him the briefest of glances.
At the cemetery, Joe and Cary climb down a rope into the tunnel that the alien has built.
At the bottom, they light another sparkler and look around the gloomy tunnel.
They hurry down the large bore tunnel.
Up ahead is faint flickering light.
Joe and Cary round a corner in the tunnel.
Up ahead of them is a massive chamber cut into the subterranean rocks.
They cautiously edge closer and peer into it.
It's full of machinery and some kind of industrial scale construction is taking place.
As they creep a bit closer, they come across the sheriff hanging upside down from the roof of the tunnel.
He's either dead or unconscious.
Joe claps his hand over Cary's mouth to stop him from screaming.
More bodies hang from the ceiling.
They look round at the bodies, all suspended upside down from the ceiling.
None of them is moving.
The alien appears in the chamber.
They watch as it does something behind some machinery.
They notice the creature is holding what appears to be a severed human leg.
It scuttles off.
Joe spots Alice dangling upside down.
Joe hurries away back up the tunnel, using a sparkler to light his way.
Cary empties out his bag of pyrotechnics.
Joe arrives at a fork in the tunnel and chooses which way to go.
Cary selects some suitably noisy fireworks and watches as the alien sets to work on whatever it is it's building.
Alice is still dangling, motionless, upside down.
The fork in the tunnel brings Joe out quite close to her.
He watches as the alien continues with its work.
Cary tries to get his lighter to spark up.
The alien carries on working, oblivious to Cary or Joe.
It stops what it's doing and takes Alice down from where she's hanging.
Joe watches with mounting alarm.
Cary finally sparks his Zippo into life.
He lights a firecracker and leaves it beside a pile of other fireworks, then legs it off back down the tunnel.
The alien puts Alice down and immediately goes to investigate the noise.
Joe breaks cover and runs over to Alice, who lies un-moving on the chamber floor.
She's completely unresponsive.
Joe hesitates, then slaps her hard.
She wakes.
She stares at him, then hugs him, tight.
Joe looks taken aback, but pleasantly so.
A girl, Tina, sits up nearby.
They carefully lower the sheriff.
The alien runs along the dark tunnel in pursuit of Cary, who flees up ahead of it.
The alien suddenly stops in its tracks.
The sheriff is up on his feet.
Joe, Alice and Tina follow the sheriff through the alien's maze of equipment.
The sheriff shines his flashlight ahead of them.
Cary rounds the corner.
The alien grabs the sheriff.
The others flee.
Bringing up the rear, Tina is snatched by the creature and pulled back into the darkness.
It comes after Joe and the others.
The three friends run on down a dark tunnel until they come to a dead end and are forced to stop.
The alien emerges from the shadows.
Alice and Cary cower back from it.
Joe stands his ground as it draws closer.
The alien draws itself up to its full height of about feet and Joe steps towards it.
The alien cocks its head to one side.
The others look on in horror as the alien picks Joe up.
It holds him close to its face to get a look at him.
The creature has a skull-like face with huge mandibles.
The alien's breath ruffles Joe's hair as it breathes on him.
It leans in close and retracts some protective membranes from over its eyes and its expression softens.
Hearing the machinery, the alien looks away for a moment, then turns back to Joe.
Alice watches warily as the alien puts Joe back on the ground.
It turns and runs away back up the tunnel, on its many legs.
Joe stares after it, catching his breath.
Now back on the surface, Joe, Alice and Cary join troops on a street in town.
Strange magnetic force pulls metal items up off the ground and draws them towards the water tower.
A bin, oil barrels, a table lamp, a bicycle and numerous other objects are all drawn irresistibly towards the tower.
The items stick to the side of the structure.
A shop window bursts open and television sets are hoovered up into the air.
A soldier finds his rifle relentlessly drawn to the tower.
He hangs onto it and is lifted up off the ground.
He's pulled about feet into the air before letting go.
A car rises up out of the used car lot.
Suddenly, the back of one of the military container lorries bursts open and the white cubes flood out of it.
Joe, Alice and Cary have to dive onto the ground as the cubes pass overhead.
The cubes, cars and other bits and pieces begin to fuse together, forming a gigantic structure on top of the tower.
Joe, Alice and Cary pick themselves up and watch as a steady stream of metallic bits and pieces stream up towards the water tower and are melded into the ever growing structure on top of it.
Alice smiles as the vast structure begins to take shape.
A Jeep drives up and Joe sees his dad and Louis get out of it.
Jack looks up at the water tower, then spots Joe.
Joe nudges Alice, who looks round and sees her dad with Jack.
The dads walk towards them and Joe and Alice go to meet them.
Jack cups Joe's face in his hands, then hugs him tight, their faces tense with a mixture of emotion and relief.
Eyes closed, they hold each other tight.
Alice looks over at her father as he steps up to her.
They regard each other for a moment, then hug.
Joe looks over Jack's shoulder at the water tower and sees the alien climbing up it.
The creature steps into the now fully formed spaceship it's created on top of the water tower and the door closes behind it.
The spaceship powers up and several arms on it rotate.
Many bright lights on the arms shine out.
Joe separates from his father and is just in time to grab his mother's locket, which is being drawn towards the tower.
It hangs in the air, pulled by an invisible force.
The locket clicks open, revealing the picture inside, which is of Joe's mother, holding him as a baby.
Joe lets go of the locket's chain and it floats up towards the water tower.
Joe and the others watch as the locket sticks to the side of the tower.
Suddenly, the tower explodes in a shower of water, deluging the street below.
The spaceship, which resembles the canopy of a palm tree, lifts into the air.
The water tower collapses and crashes down into the street, scattering soldiers standing there, and crushing their vehicles.
He, Joe, Alice, Louis and Jack watch as the spacecraft gains altitude in a blaze of bright lights.
Hobbling through town, Charles and Martin sit sailing up into the night sky.
Still stoned in his car, Donny slumbers on as the spaceship flies by, its lights reflected in his windshield.
As they watch it recede into the distance, Joe and Alice hold hands.
Smiles spread across their faces.
The spacecraft becomes a dot of light high up in the sky.
Gradually, it becomes a pinpoint and then dies away altogether.
A chalk outline of a body is drawn on the floor.
Martin arrives as the detective and talks to a witness.
At Romero Chemicals.
Martin gets up and puts his hat on.
Preston, as the President, makes a call.
Martin goes on into building Martin battles with zombie Cary and impales him on a spike on the wall.
Blood pours from Cary's mouth.
Martin makes a phone call.
At the station.
Joe's modern train is unconvincingly blown up.
Martin and Alice are on the hillside overlooking the crash site.
The man turns around.
It's zombie Cary again.
Martin pulls a gun and plugs him full of bullets.
Martin dictates.
He knocks back a drink.
Outside Woodward's house.
Charles is playing a doctor.
The innocent victim, zombie Cary, pops up and attacks Charles.
Martin shoots Cary again, but not before he's bitten into Charles' shoulder.
Cary collapses with a bullet wound in his head.
Now un-dead, Charles lunges at Martin, who shoots him, too.
Martin takes the syringe of antidote and goes.
As he opens the door, zombie Alice creeps up behind him.
She rushes him as he turns around and he drops the syringe.
As they grapple, Martin reaches for the syringe and injects Alice in the neck with it.
She slumps, motionless.
Martin draws his gun.
He's about to pull the trigger, but seeing she has been returned to normal, drops the gun.
Charles does an Orson Welles style epilogue.
He closes a book and pretends to smoke a pipe.
Zombie Alice attacks him and snarls into the camera.
Now in a black star-sprinkled sky, a sliver of sunlight crests the Earth.
Rays of light shoot off the continents, and a golden word orbits into view.
Now letters rain down into two boxes, spelling out a logo.
Now in a shadowy stone hallway.
A lone figure stands under a vaulted ceiling, silhouetted against a wrought iron and plate glass door.
In a fine overcoat, he twiddles a wrapped cough drop in his fingers.
Now constituents wave signs.
Later David greets suburbanites.
Now David rides on a Coast Guard boat as it takes a high splash.
In the country, David talks with a farmer, then appears with Mayor Bloomberg outside City Hall.
In a bar.
Now, before a huge crowd.
He chats with Madeleine Albright, Wesley Clark and Jesse Jackson.
Outside Fordham University's Keating Hall, a young man in the crowd claps, his gaze sternly interested.
He wears a newsboy cap, V-neck, and tie.
David smiles at his many supporters.
Now indoors, an aide runs to David's campaign chairman.
Charlie slaps the newspaper shut.
Elsewhere, the young and the newsboy cap studies a slim, hardcover book.
He folds it shut, and answers his cell phone.
He works his lips under his trim dusting of a moustache.
Now in a conservative hotel suite, David steps into view, toting a satchel and duffel bag.
He later removes a folder from the satchel and flips it open.
Later still, its contents lie untouched on a table as David stares out a window at the city.
He gloomily peers toward the sitting area, then picks up a TV remote and hits a button.
David watches from the couch.
Now on a downtown rooftop, four gentlemanly figures cross to the guard rail, each in a fedora, overcoat and necktie.
One is the mustached young man.
The eldest one speaks.
The older member looks briefly at his mustached peer.
In the suite, Charlie joins David.
Charlie aims the remote at the TV.
Charlie tosses a tie at David.
He eyes its blue and red stripes.
Later, Charlie and David hang their heads.
A woman hands off a slip of paper.
David strides off.
Charlie catches up to him.
David leaves the Elegant Function Room.
Then a newscast shows on a TV.
Now David stands alone in a grand formal hallway.
Head bowed, he holds his hands in his pockets.
Later he enters a stately Men's Room.
He studies note cards.
Switching views over time show David at varying spots on the polished marble floor.
He washes his hands.
David straightens his New York shaped lapel pin.
David looks to the row of closed stall doors.
One opens.
A lovely woman in a silk spaghetti-strap dress with a black lace bodice emerges bashfully.
She grips two high heels, a coat, and an open champagne bottle which she sets on the counter.
Her unblinking eyes stay on him.
The woman sits on the counter.
David straightens, his gaze fascinated.
As David faintly nods, the smiling woman shakes her head.
Their amused smiles relax as their stare lingers.
 David breaks the gaze.
The two strangers gaze at each other, and then converge abruptly in a deep kiss, caressing each other passionately.
As their kiss ends, their faces still hover close.
A second onrush of kissing overtakes them.
The woman jogs out barefoot.
Charlie smiles.
David follows her.
She peers back.
Two men approach.
She loosens his tie.
She hurries off.
Now in the ballroom.
Backstage Charlie and other aides applaud.
David peers at his supporters, then briefly bows his head.
He glances back stage.
He holds up a shoe.
Numerous flashbulbs pop.
Now dark clouds drift over Manhattan.
On a pleasant city street, largely devoid of activity.
A shiny black town car stops by Madison Square Park.
A rear passenger door opens.
The oldest member of the mysterious four-man team from the rooftop gets out of the car in his fedora and overcoat.
He confidently enters the park.
Farther along, the mustached stranger sits on a bench.
The older superior sits beside him.
His superior walks away.
The mustached subordinate peers after his boss with a faint smile.
Across from the park, a well-kept residential building shows beyond a few trees.
Inside David sleeps.
He wakes and turns off his alarm clock, which reads six o'clock.
Later, David sips coffee.
Later, David carries a to-go cup of coffee as he crosses a park.
As David and his fan go their separate ways, the mustached stranger remains on his park bench, his head bowed and his fedora brim tilted to shade his face.
David hurries across a street.
A clock on the side of a building reads Sunlight glows through a tree's branches, bathing the stranger's face.
He awakes.
Blinking, he glances around, then pulls out his hardcover book and checks a bookmarked page.
He jumps to his feet, spotting David, who boards a bus.
The stranger races after it.
David notices him through a bus window.
The stranger keeps sprinting, as David looks for a place to sit.
He smiles.
The lovely woman from the election night sleeps with her head leaned against a window.
As David takes the seat beside her, she stirs.
David checks out her thighs and miniskirt.
She notices him and beams.
Outside, the mustached stranger still sprints after the bus.
She stares at him.
David grabs his phone.
A car speeds past the running stranger.
The bus pulls up to a stop.
As the mustached stranger waits to cross a busy intersection after it, he checks his wristwatch.
It reads He makes a flicking motion.
David's coffee sloshes.
As the lovely woman wipes coffee off her legs, a taxi hits the stranger.
The cabbie stops his car and rushes to the fallen man.
The stranger opens the book.
A line travels at right angles across a map.
Outside, the stranger watches the bus drive off.
His book shows the line moving towards a pulsing red dot.
He runs after the bus.
On board.
She tries to tip his cup.
She grabs his phone away and answers.
She drops his phone into his coffee, which bubbles as the phone rings.
David extracts his phone.
She wipes it on her skirt.
Outside, the mustached stranger hurries across a street.
The bus stops.
Elise climbs off.
She turns to David, who stands in the doorway.
The doors close.
Elise grins at him through a window.
With a mocking frown, she flips him off.
Smiling, he watches her head away, then sits again.
Placing his coffee in the seat beside him, he eyes Elise's number on the back of one of his business cards.
He makes a call.
He hangs up.
Later, he pushes the revolving door of an office building and enters a vacant lobby.
As he passes between two waist-high security scanners, he holds his card to the top of one.
Then strides to an elevator.
Now he emerges in a reception area.
The receptionist's gaze remains down, her hand holding a phone to her ear.
As he steps past another receptionist, her eyes remain ahead.
Hurrying past two men standing in a corridor and a third sitting in a waiting area, he enters the conference room.
Inside, men in shiny black body suits and visored helmets work on his colleagues, who stand frozen in time.
Two men scan Charlie's face with wand-like devices.
Two men in hats look over.
One is the mustached stranger's superior.
David races out.
Glancing back, he sees the helmeted men close behind.
Sprinting to the reception area, he passes his frozen coworkers.
More men join the chase.
David runs up some stairs, finding the lead man at the top.
As David races down a corridor, the white-haired boss opens a door off the hall and walks through.
Turning a corner, David sees the man in front of him.
He takes another corridor but finds the man waiting at its end.
Several of the helmeted men close in.
David doubles back.
David hurries into Charlie's office and locks the door.
He closes a second door leading to a small conference room, then picks up a phone.
David waits on the phone.
He slams down the receiver, then creeps to the hallway door.
The other door opens.
The helmeted men grab David.
As he struggles, they wrestle him to the floor and flip him on his back, holding him down.
The mustached stranger crouches down.
He presses a cloth to David's face.
David's view fades to black.
Through groggy eyes, he sees the helmeted men carrying him under a high ceiling with bright lights.
Later, he finds himself in a stark warehouse.
He finds his wrists bound.
The white-haired boss uses a phone.
He hangs up.
They eye David, who sits in a chair.
He consults the book.
The balding man meets his gaze.
The white-haired man smiles at David.
He steps over.
David bolts and frees his wrists.
A point of a finger from Richardson telekinetically lifts a floor tile, tripping David.
Two men in body suits grab him under his arms and drag him back to his chair.
The mustached stranger observes.
David presses his hands to his face and rocks himself.
He aims the scold at his underling.
As four men exit an SUV, Richardson sits facing David.
David's jaw hangs slack.
He shifts his eyes.
Richardson stands.
A man removes his chair.
He stares down at David, who nods.
Two men grab David.
They restrain his arms.
Richardson's boyish partner finds the business card in David's wallet.
Richardson lights it on fire.
Fire consumes the card.
The boyish man returns David's wallet.
Richardson drops the blazing card.
He points a finger at David and waits.
Two men escort David to a door.
Richardson watches as the men lift David off his feet and toss him through, head first.
David lands in Charlie's office.
As one door closes, Charlie enters from the other.
David stares.
David opens the other door, but finds only the small conference room.
David scrutinizes his friend.
Charlie hangs up his phone.
With a puzzled look, David steps into the conference room.
Charlie fixes a crooked picture on the wall.
As David heads out, Charlie gapes at him, then follows.
At the foot of some stairs, the receptionist, Susan, smiles.
David shoots an uneasy look at her.
Later, in the conference room.
Sitting at the long table, David blinks his bemused eyes.
As a handful of colleagues listen to a woman's analysis, Charlie paces thoughtfully.
He gives a faint shrug.
David's eyes focus on Charlie.
He smiles, then shifts his gaze to David, who stares at him with a confused expression.
Blinking, David focuses, then shrugs his hands.
Now David stares at a secretary on a phone as he and a friend pass her cubicle.
Charlie leads him inside.
Leaning on his desk, he folds his arms.
David averts his gaze, his lips parted.
He shifts his eyes, then shrugs.
Charlie glances away.
He eyes David, who presses his lips in a disappointed line.
Now our view hovers above a stately, high-ceilinged reading room, where a center aisle separates dozens of large tables arranged perpendicularly to it.
The mustached adjustment officer sits at one table with his hands folded.
As men quietly work at other tables around him, some writing in slim books of their own, he shifts his contemplative eyes, then rises.
He walks down the aisle.
Now rains falls on the sidewalk in front of a ragtag neighborhood bar.
Inside, David sits at the bar.
He writes multiple iterations of Elise's phone number on a napkin.
The mustached officer sits beside him.
David glances down.
Shifting his jaw, he glares indignantly at Harry.
Harry glances skyward.
David pinches the bridge of his nose.
Harry glances over his shoulder.
He lays the ticket on the bar.
As Harry stands, David takes the ticket.
Harry dons his newsboy cap and leaves.
David stares contemplatively at the ticket.
Now, on a ferry, passengers ride inside a covered seating area.
A couple at the handrail gaze out at the city skyline.
David finds Harry leaning against the railing at the boat's stern.
David gives a nod.
David gazes at the city.
Now David heads down a crowded sidewalk.
As he walks amid the flowing pedestrians, the screen fades to black.
David lies on his back in bed and gazes out a window with a faraway look.
Sunlight bathes his face as he rests his hands on his stomach.
Shifting his gaze to the clock on his bedside table, he reaches over and turns off the alarm.
Then drops his head back on the pillow.
His chest heaves.
Now, our view sweeps down the front of his towering apartment building.
David exits, briefcase in hand.
Starts down the sidewalk.
In Madison Square Park, dead leaves litter the ground.
David makes his way across, then waits at his bus stop.
An M6 pulls up and he climbs aboard.
Sliding his pass through the reader, he pauses in the aisle.
His hopeful eyes find the empty pair of seats occupied three years earlier by Elise.
He heads to them and sits.
The bus pulls away from the curb.
Outside, sunlight yawns across the side of a high-rise.
David gazes out his window at a passing scaffold creating a canopied sidewalk by a construction site.
A short distance ahead, he notices a dark-haired woman striding down the sidewalk.
As the bus cruises past, he sees that it's Elise.
Elise turns down a street behind the bus as it pulls over.
David hurries off and races back up the sidewalk after her.
Turning the corner, he runs down another street and catches up to Elise as she makes as another turn on foot.
She stops.
She grins.
Elise squirms, taking a breath, then eyes him.
Now, a man runs down a corridor.
It's the boyish officer.
He opens a door marked Mr. Richardson and finds the veteran officer at his desk.
The messenger shows a map book.
He grabs his brown fedora.
In the hall, he passes Harry who doffs his hat.
The boyish officer now sporting his own hat follows Richardson through a door.
They arrive in a cafe co-room and spy David and Elise.
The boyish officer checks his map book.
A host sits them.
His book shows pulsing red dots.
Outside, David glances aside.
At their outdoor table, Elise smiles to herself and peeks at David.
The officers share a table.
David glances around as a server fills his water glass.
Outside, Richardson and his aide follow a walkway to a spot overlooking the outdoor dining area.
The aide checks his map book.
A red inflection point pulses larger.
Charlie arrives.
A third officer arrives.
Charlie pays the check.
Elise grins at David.
Richardson and his aide look on.
David and Elise go to kiss.
Richardson triggers a text to Charlie.
His interjection prevents the kiss.
David nods amiably, then gives Elise a long kiss on the cheek.
A relieved Richardson bows his head.
She nods smiling radiantly.
Later, by the Brooklyn Bridge.
David exits a Town Car and shakes many hands.
David takes the podium before a crowd of hundreds.
The gathering overlooks the East River.
Richardson's aide gets a text.
We just moved the rehearsal back to Cedar Lake.
David peers across the river to Pier In a quaint eclectic apartment, Elise puts on a hoodie and picks up her cell.
A text message reads.
Rehearsal back at Cedar Lake, not Pier David's senate race gathering wraps up.
David spies Richardson in a window.
Both Adjustment officers duck out of sight.
David frowns at the Pier structures across the river.
Richardson pouts.
David stares at the now empty window.
Now, a large water taxi crosses the river.
David rides aboard it as the skipper pilots it to the pier.
David hurries onto the platform and up some stairs.
He follows a covered walkway alongside a commercially refurbished warehouse.
Finding a studio door chain-locked, he makes a call on his cell.
David checks his phone.
It reads disconnected, call failed, searching for signal.
With a determined gaze, David jogs off the pier.
Richardson and his aide observe.
The officers follow David in the map book.
Now, David rounds a corner, coming face to face with the two officers.
David walks on.
They accompany him.
David eyes the boyish officer who promptly closes his map book.
Under David's unwavering gaze, Richardson frowns a little.
David crosses the street to a bistro.
The boyish aide checks his book.
The Adjustment officers watch David stride briskly outside.
Now, David stands by the curb and hails an approaching cab.
Its roof light switches to off duty as it drives by.
David tries again.
A mini-van taxi ignores him.
David jogs out into the opposite lane, waving high for another cab that passes him up.
Richardson and his aide stand casually by.
David jogs away.
Richardson and his aide swap a thoughtful look.
In his dress shoes, David sprints after a cab.
As the cabbie waves and slows, a sedan crashes into his passenger side.
David runs over to the damaged cars.
David glances to the sedan driver who checks the bloody- faced cabbie.
David checks on the other driver.
David makes a call.
David goes to another cop.
The rebuffed cop looks to Richardson, then walks away.
They both look aside, but find no one.
David strides off, leaving an ambulance and a squad car behind.
He checks his watch, takes a few more brisk steps, then breaks into a run.
A taxi stops.
As they near a traffic light, it changes from green to red.
The surrounding cars stop.
A man and a woman in the crosswalk scurry out of their way.
David sees Richardson and his aide emerge from a door.
The taxi leaves the Adjustment Bureau servants behind.
In a pub, the officers detour through a side door which ports them to a street.
The hostess hurries after them, but finds only a coat closet.
The Bureau officers try a residential door, but finds Central Park on the other side.
They race up the steps of a townhouse.
As David's cab cruises through another intersection, the Bureau officers run through an art gallery bumping a bystander.
Heading outside, they see David exit the cab and enter a building.
Richardson's hat blows off.
As Richardson enters, David opens a door and sees Elise executing a graceful sidestep.
Richardson catches his breath.
He makes eye contact with David.
The boyish aide hands him a cellphone.
As Richardson walks off, David's gaze returns to Elise.
David stares at Elise.
She partners with a man who holds her waist in one hand.
Elise balances on one foot, bends over, and briefly flutters her other foot high behind her.
As the male dancer dips in a far stepping lunge, Elise rolls fluidly over his back.
David enters the studio.
Outside, Richardson walks beside a marble facade.
He pulls open a brass lobby door, and disappears into a midcentury high-rise, its window's number in the hundreds ascending into the sky, story after story after story.
Inside, he crosses a huge marble lobby striped with shadows, then plods up a dark staircase.
Later, he stands before double doors marked Mr. Donaldson.
As he goes to knock, the clean-cut Donaldson steps out.
They enter a wood paneled room through a door framed in green marble.
The wall suggests an octagonal perimeter.
They enter a records archive.
They stop by a reference desk.
The balding Burdensky opens a volume.
On the opened historical pages, the circuit light pathways are unchanging.
Meanwhile, David and Elise walk together.
As they stroll through a park in the early evening, Elise throws her head back and laughs.
Now, in the Adjustment Bureau reading room, Richardson finds Harry studying at one of the large tables.
Back in the records room.
With David and Elise.
He runs.
He easily stays ahead, running backward.
She gut-punches him and runs ahead.
She wins.
Now ravers dance under bright flashing lights in a warehouse.
David and Elise enter.
David waves at partygoers.
Elise loosens, then removes it.
Later at a table, David swigs from a beer bottle.
He shakes a guy's hand.
As David and Elise talk, their faces close together, David grins.
Elise jumps up and down, pumping her hands round his head.
The ravers cheer as David dances with Elise.
Later, she hugs him.
Now they leave the party.
Elise watches him with sorrowful eyes.
He twitches a tender smile.
He glances away and Elise gently rests a hand on his jacket lapel.
As he gives her a sheepish grin, she reaches up to his face and strokes his cheek.
Wrapping an arm around his shoulders, she leans forward and presses her lips to his.
David returns the kiss, enveloping Elise in his arms.
Later, in Elise's bedroom, David runs his fingers through her hair.
She rests her hands on his bare back and he clasps her face as he kisses her passionately.
Now he rolls on top of her in bed, his lips still pressed to hers.
As they make love, he grips her hand and their fingers intertwine.
David nuzzles Elise's chest.
She runs a hand up the back of his neck, and he lifts his head briefly.
Later, he spoons her as they sleep, his arm draped over her body.
A withdrawing view of them reveals a suited man in a fedora, standing at the foot of the bed.
With steely eyes, he watches the couple sleep, then turns away.
Sunlight seeps between clouds and fills the sky.
Elise sleeps alone in bed, the sheets beside her pushed down and rumpled.
She jerks awake.
Her startled look becomes relieved, and she touches her fingers to her brow.
She notices the vacant spot beside her and sits up.
She glances around.
She frowns to herself, her lips parted.
She answers her cell.
The front door opens, and David enters.
She waves at David.
She nods at the phone.
David hands her a cup of coffee.
David fixes his coffee in the kitchen of the one-room flat.
She hangs up.
Her phone shows four missed calls from Adrian.
David looks up, knowingly.
His thoughtful gaze drifts.
She glances aside.
Her lips spread into a sad smile.
David blinks.
He moves to a chair at her bedside.
She meets David's gaze.
Swallowing hard, Elise averts her eyes.
As she looks at him again, she smiles wistfully.
David gives her a contented look.
Her eyes glimmer with tears as she meets his gaze.
David crooks a smile.
Elise's smile fades as she stares into David's earnest eyes.
They gaze tenderly at each other.
Blinking, David looks away.
He juts out his jaw, then locks eyes with her.
Now Elise sits in a green room.
In the studio, David shakes Jon Stewart's hand, then waves to the audience.
Meanwhile, a guy in a ball cap enters the green room.
Her shoulders sag as the man leaves, and she collects her belongings.
Now as David leaves the studio, the man in the ball cap opens the door for him.
David texts as he walks through the doorway.
Lifting his gaze from his phone, he finds himself in the Adjustment Bureau warehouse.
He whips around to the closed door, but finds it locked.
He tries another one, then attempts to lift a loading bay door.
Now David sits with his back against a support beam.
As he stares off, a figure appears.
The steely-eyed adjustment officer approaches.
Rising, David stares at him.
David looks Thompson in the eyes.
Thompson paces away from him.
David follows.
David observes Thompson, who stands still, his thoughtful eyes blinking.
He shifts his gaze to a bay door and it begins to rise.
With a determined look, David hurries past Thompson to the exit.
The adjustment officer blinks his disapproving eyes.
Meanwhile at Cedar Lake, dancers perform on one section of a low, L-shaped stage.
As they twirl gracefully, male dancers leap across the other section, then drop to their knees and spin.
David rides in the back of a cab, his eyes shifting to his window as the city's glimmering lights glide past.
The taxi slows in front of Cedar Lake.
Now David enters the dance studio.
He joins a group of patrons who stand near a tiered section of stage.
Elise sits on the top platform, her feet resting on a bench below it.
As she hunches forward, a group of dancers gathered behind her lifts her into the air.
David watches her with a mesmerized expression, as Elise wraps her arms around a male dancer's necks and he lifts her.
As they rotate together, Elise spreads her legs gracefully.
The dancer sets her down, then lifts her by the waist.
Two others join him, taking Elise's hands as the center dancer lowers her, then raises her again.
Thompson steps up behind David.
Turning, David glares at him.
David gives him a sidelong look.
Thompson's eyes remain on the dancers.
David glances at the stage.
David's brow creases.
He looks squarely at Thompson, but the adjustment officer's gaze remains on the performance.
David returns his eyes to the stage, where a dancer tosses Elise into the arms of another.
She extends her arms and legs as he spins her.
Thompson steps away, his eyes still focused on the dancers.
With a puzzled frown, David watches the adjustment officer stop in the studio's doorway.
Thompson gazes at the performance, and David follows his eyes back to the stage.
Elise bends forward, sweeping her legs straight up into the air behind her.
As a male dancer tosses her, Thompson gives a nod and Elise falls.
Her face contorts in pain.
As David rushes toward the stage, a male dancer picks Elise up and carries her off the platform.
He scurries out of the studio with David jogging after them.
Thompson turns away from the scene, his face pinched, and strolls through a doorway.
Later, Elise rests her head on David's shoulder as they ride in the back of a cab.
They pull up to a hospital, and David carries Elise inside.
Now still in costume, Elise wears a protective lead apron around her waist as she lies on an X-ray table.
An X-ray machine hovers above her feet, aligning a cross- haired light pattern with her ankle.
Meanwhile, David sits in a waiting room, his head bowed and his eyes closed.
He massages the bridge of his nose with his fingers.
Thompson appears in front of him.
David punches him in the face.
As Thompson stumbles back, two men in the waiting room rise, their eyes on David.
Thompson straightens his fedora.
Meanwhile, a doctor checks X-rays.
With a stern look, Thompson turns away.
As he leaves, he tips his hat at one of the men in the waiting room.
David stares after him, his chest heaving.
He lowers himself back into his chair and bows his head.
Later, he stands beside Elise's bed in the emergency room.
He touches her bandaged ankle, which rests on two pillows.
He wraps his arms around her, squeezing his eyes shut as they hug.
With a woeful expression, he opens his eyes and shifts them thoughtfully.
He holds her for another moment, then pulls away and glances at her.
He forces a faint smile.
Elise gives him a tender look.
He turns away, and she watches him with concerned eyes.
As he trudges out of the emergency room, a discouraged expression crosses her face.
Exiting the ER, David walks down a corridor, his pained eyes staring straight ahead.
A view from behind shows his lone form filing down the the long hospital hallway.
Now in a vast hallway lined with marble, Richardson joins Harry at a window over looking New York City.
Harry's gaze stays trained ahead.
Meanwhile, Elise sits alone in the hospital waiting room.
She blinks back tears, then shakes her head.
Now a friend pushes Elise in a wheelchair.
They head out.
Harry gives him a skeptical look.
Richardson puts on his fedora, gives Harry a pat on the arm, and walks off, leaving the younger officer alone at the window of the mid-century high-rise.
months later, now on a sunny farm, David walks a green pasture.
Later, in front of a barn and silos, he addresses a crowd.
Sitting in a campaign bus, Charlie and an aide watch a news report on the vehicle's TV.
Charlie heads outside.
As David greets his supporters, the campaign chairman sits on a picnic table and reads a newspaper.
He browses a page, folds it up, and frowns thoughtfully to himself.
As voters disperse, David joins him.
Charlie holds out the newspaper.
An arts section feature shows photos of Elise, one dancing, the other with a bow.
David stares at the photo, his brow cinched.
As he leaves, Charlie gazes after him with pursed lips.
Seated outside a waterfront warehouse, he wears a sober frown.
Now under a dusky sky, David walks across a deserted shipping dock.
He carelessly tracks his feet through a large glassy puddle and stops at the dock's edge, gazing toward the low sun.
In her apartment, Elise sits at the foot of her bed, eyeing a document.
She sets it aside, then lifts her troubled gaze.
Now David approaches the ragged bar.
As David disappears inside, Harry emerges from a neighboring door.
Inside, David sits forlornly at the bar.
The bartender hands him a slip of paper.
David stares after her, then reads the note.
At dusk, under pouring rain, he holds his jacket over his head as he runs along a dock to a warehouse.
In the evening, he leans on the wall, waiting.
Harry arrives in a fedora and trench coat, sheltered from the rain by an umbrella.
He joins David.
Harry lowers his gaze and takes a deep breath.
He gives a grave shake of the head, then takes a seat on a stack of shipping pallets.
Harry gives a shrug of his head.
David's lips part, his gaze thoughtful.
The young politician blinks his deep-set eyes and shifts his heartbroken gaze.
His expression wistful, he stares across the warehouse.
David presses his lips together.
Later, they follow a covered outdoor walkway.
They stop at a door.
Harry takes hold of a side door's knob.
Passing through the door, they enter a spacious white gallery with paintings on the walls.
The human obeys agog.
In an upper gallery, a partial dinosaur skeleton hangs from the ceiling.
Peter, on an upper level overlooking the dinosaur, Harry leads David to another door.
David puts his hand on the agent's shoulder.
Harry leads him into a service tunnel with pipework along the walls.
David obeys, gawks at the jarring change in location, and follows his guide down the damp corridor.
They follow an enormous insulated pipe then descend a short flight of steps.
Harry crosses the floor and climbs a steep flight of steps to a rust eaten door.
Turning the knob counterclockwise, he opens it.
They glimpse a stoic figure and a fedora passing by as he shuts the door behind him.
David gazes after him.
Now Elise arrives at the Cedar Lake Dance Studio and faces a receptionist.
Now Harry returns to the pumping station with a briefcase and leads David to a service junction where a cinderblock worktable awaits them.
He takes two ledgers from the briefcase handing one to David.
As they confer, we watch Elise dance.
Elsie drops warily onto her buttocks.
She lies down resting her hands on her abdomen.
Harry smiles to himself and sets his plan book down.
David stares at him.
Pursing his lips, he shifts his gaze and gives a stoic nod.
His lips pressed tight, Harry takes a deep breath and nods.
David regards impensively.
Elise steps from the dance studio into the night air, and makes her way down the sidewalk.
At dawn, a thick blanket of lead gray clouds passes over the city.
As we peer out the side of the Adjustment Bureau high rise raindrops plummet at us.
Rain soaks Harry's bench in Madison Square Park.
Now at the courthouse, Adrian faces a petite clerk.
Clad in a flowing black halter dress, Elise arrives with a friend.
She stares blankly.
In the pumping station, Harry and David reach a spiral staircase.
Harry smiles and gives David his fedora.
Under the officer's kind gaze, David sets the fedora on his head and takes a controlled breath.
As he climbs the spiral stairway, Harry gazes after him.
David bursts out a door with a brief stumble and dashes down a rainy alleyway.
He sprints across a busy street where cars narrowly avoid hitting him.
He makes a left turn and pounds through a puddle.
At the Adjustment Bureau, an aide hurries up to Thompson.
At the courthouse, Adrian greets Elise with a hug.
As she steps by, he gazes after her.
Meanwhile, David sprints through the downpour reaching the targeted blue door.
He ports through and finds himself at a service counter at the New York DMV.
A bewildered customer peers at the rainy street left exposed in the open doorway.
David races out a lobby door.
At the Bureau, Thompson and aides cross a room stocked with hats.
Thompson halts, glances at his aides plan book, and rushes off.
In the rain, a sprinting David holds a hand out to traffic.
He dashes across the street and climbs the courthouse steps two at a time.
In the lobby, he crashes into a bystander knocking him down.
His hat comes off and a guard approaches.
He grabs the hat.
Adrian addresses Elise's friend.
On her way out, she passes a gaunt stranger in a fedora.
A bailiff signals him to take it off, and he does.
In the lobby, he races to a metal detector, and wrenches off his jacket and empties his pockets.
He slides it along the table as he darts through the checkpoint.
Leaving his other belongings, he halts under a rotundas decorated ceiling.
Later he runs up a spiral stairwell.
Now as Thompson meets his team in the rotunda, David races past Elise's friend outside the courtroom.
He bursts into the Ladies Room.
She stares at him.
The gaunt bureau officer enters.
David coldcocks him.
He picks up the officer's plan book, and shows it to Elise.
An aide with Thompson consults his book.
In the warehouse officers, clad from head to toe in black, get into SUVs.
Meanwhile in the Adjustment Bureau.
In the courthouse Ladies Room David braces a mop handle behind a radiator barring the door.
He checks its sturdiness, then checks the deadbolt.
Crossing to her, he puts on the fedora.
David opens the closet door and ports them onto Yankee Stadium's grassy outfield.
Elise gapes at the abrupt change and setting.
David rushes her to a padded doorway in the playing field wall.
It ports to a stairway.
Climbing it, the couple find themselves in Manhattan's business district.
Back in the courthouse Ladies Room, a bureau officer kicks in the door.
Thompson and his team enter glancing briefly at their unconscious colleague.
Meanwhile, David and Elise race hand in hand down the bustling city street.
In the Ladies Room, Thompson notes the plan room lying open on the sink counter.
His aide consults his own book.
With David, she shakes her head.
She nods.
Now Thompson and his aide emerge from the underground stairway and arrive in the business district.
David halts an oncoming car by holding up a hand and pulls Elise safely across the street.
Fording through it, he leads Elise out onto a grassy island.
Looking up, she sees the Statute of Liberty towering above.
David spots a pair of doors, crosses to them and faces Elise.
Elise's eyes pool with tears.
She hangs her head and then takes in David's earnest expression.
A tear rolls down her cheek.
She swallows and nodes bravely.
Elise goes to him and takes his hand.
They face a set of double doors.
David takes hold of the right hand knob.
They turn the knobs and the doors open to a long hallway with a polished marble floor.
As they enter, the doors shut behind them.
On the street Thompson and his aide gawk.
Their plan book shows David and Elise's pathway has united and intermittent red dots flash in a column.
At the bureau, Harry reads the same in his plan book.
With a grave look, he steps away.
David and Elise push open a pair of doors and enter the bureau reading room.
David knocks a staffer out of the way.
Leaving Elise behind him, he shoves another.
They race along a walkway bordering the room.
David finds a door and they hurry through.
Thompson and his staff enter the reading room.
Bureau members stare as they march down the center aisle.
Meanwhile, David and Elise hurry up a palatial spiral staircase.
In the reading room, Thompson leads his team to the peripheral walkway, then the door.
David glances upward.
 The flights of stairs seem to continue infinitely.
Now in a white murble hall.
The staffer holds out a large manila envelope.
Harry grimly takes it, heads back down the hall and turns out of view.
Now a black garbed intervention team passes through a columned archway.
Thompson and his staff job up the spiraling stairway.
At a landing he slides open a door of bronze bars.
Now David and Elise reach a hallway.
He takes her hand and they hurry on.
David peers over his shoulder.
They reach a door, glance about, and go through.
In a green-carpeted office, a bookish receptionist looks up.
The two intruders run through a series of identical offices.
David offers a staffer a cordial wave as he and Elise proceed through the offices.
Now the black clad intervention team marches into a records archive where rows of bookcases shelve white-spine volumes.
David and Elise arrive in another identical records room.
Reaching the far end, they find two intervention teams approaching.
David leads Elise through more of the bafflingly connected records rooms.
Finding a dark green door framed in green marble, he desperately yanks it open.
It leads to a dim stairway.
The couple ascend and push through another door.
They find themselves on a small rooftop overlooking the city.
Hand in hand they hurry back down the stairs.
They desperately shove through the doors at the bottom.
It brings them out onto an identical rooftop.
Elise's jaw drops and she stares helplessly.
The couple cross to the other side of the roof and find Central Park stretching out below.
Going back to the door they find three intervention officers on their way up.
As they flee, three more intervention officers come out from two doors ahead.
The officers easily surround the lovers who face each other hopelessly.
They envelope each other in a profound embrace their lips meeting passionately.
Holding Elise tight, David nearly lifts her off her feet.
The intervention officers stand motionless, looking on stoically as the lovers cling to each other.
Their eyes squeezed shut as they hungrily kiss.
With an almost pained expression, Elise wraps an arm around David's head.
Her eyes open and she gives the start.
Ending their kiss, David and Elise look around and find both intervention teams gone.
Staying close by her love, the dancer brings her fingers to her lips then lays them over her heart.
A view of the outlying cityscape flushes golden as morning light comes to bear from a break in the clouds.
David and Elise look on solemnly.
Thompson faces them.
Harry arrives bearing an envelope.
He holds it up and Thompson pulls out the message.
As he reads, we glimpse the markings of a plan.
With a stricken gaze, the officer slips the page back into the envelope.
He beholds the human lovers then shuffles toward one of the doorways.
Behind, Harry gazes after Thompson compassionately.
David nods at the envelope in Harry's hands.
Harry shows the page to the two humans.
Two beacons move together in a close parallel path.
As the pass a flashing border, all delineations vanish from the page space ahead of them.
Harry reaches out, takes back his fedora, and gives a cheeky shrug.
Smiling, he gives Elise's arm a squeeze and leaves them.
Elise drapes her arms around David's shoulders.
Later smiling, the two walk hand in hand down a busy sidewalk noticing every hat-wearing man they pass.
They pass Harry.
He acknowledges them amiably touching the brim of his hat.
David and Elise glance after him, then continue forward together.
Colored buttons fall into a large heap, forming the Warner Brothers' shield.
More buttons fall.
A gaunt, ashen-faced, old woman's sunken eyes flicker open wearily, then close.
The woman, Daisy, lies in a hospital bed.
She wears a tight turban.
Caroline goes to her bedside.
Caroline clasps her hand.
Daisy was scratching her chest.
The nurse rounds the bed to Daisy's IV drip.
The nurse adjusts the drip.
Daisy closes her eyes again.
Dark-haired Caroline looks away pensively, then gently takes Daisy's hand in her own.
Caroline hugs her.
Caroline sits up and strokes her mother's arm.
Daisy's eyes open slightly.
Her brow furrows.
A flashback of an enormous station with a grand colonnade.
A watch smith's.
Caroline listens intently.
He wears dark glasses.
He's bald, with a mustache.
They see their son off at the station.
Mrs. Gateau opens a letter at the dining table.
Mrs. Gateau looks across at her husband.
He wipes his mouth and leaves the table.
They stand on a platform.
Uniformed men unload a line of coffins from a steam train.
They leave the grave.
He fits a large brass cog.
A crowd of spectators has gathered on the spacious concourse of the train station.
They stare expectantly at Mr. Gateau, who stands atop a raised, wooden scaffold platform.
He unveils a huge, embossed, brass, wall-mounted clock.
Its long second hand starts to turn backwards.
The bowler hat-wearing man points.
In reverse action, a fallen soldier stands and runs backwards from an explosion.
Bespectacled President Roosevelt removes his trilby.
Soldiers run backwards over mud.
Their son climbs down from the train on which he departed, as it reverses into the station.
On the concourse, the President hangs his head.
Roosevelt looks up again.
Grainy footage of Mr. Gateau rowing out to sea in a wooden boat.
The nurse rises from her seat in the corner of the room and walks out past an empty neighboring bed.
Pale, Caroline stares off in thought and closes her eyes.
Caroline goes to the sofa and uncovers Daisy's suitcase.
A leather-bound book.
Caroline sits.
It contains a black-and-white wedding photo.
Fireworks illuminate the streets, which are filled with revelers waving American flags.
Thomas Button sprints through the crowd and makes a beeline for a house on the corner.
His trilby blows off as he races to the front steps and lets himself in.
A maid in the hallway closes the door as Thomas hurries to an upstairs bedroom to find his wife lying in a large bed, under blood-stained sheets.
Thomas removes his coat as a doctor approaches him, then turns to see a priest.
The doctor.
Thomas strides to his wife's bedside.
Thomas nods.
The priest gives the last rites as Thomas walks cautiously towards the baby's cot.
A maid stands in his way.
He pushes her aside and leans into the cot to uncover the infant.
Suddenly horrified, Thomas gags.
The priest sprinkles holy water on the dying mother.
Thomas snatches the baby from its cot and runs.
He hurries downstairs.
Thomas bounds out of the house, cradling the baby, which is wrapped in a blanket.
He tears through the street, stumbling as he pushes past revelers, one of whom swigs from a bottle of booze.
Clutching the baby, he stops at the edge of a darkened river.
Panting, he turns to see a policeman emerge from a nearby warehouse.
The policeman holds a lantern.
Thomas looks left along the river path, then breaks into a run.
The policeman blows his whistle as he gives chase.
Thomas runs into the gloom behind the warehouses and comes out in a dimly lit road.
He weaves between slow-moving traffic and scurries into the shadows.
The policeman glances left and right, then gathers speed, as Thomas darts through a gateway in a concrete wall.
Holding the baby close, he secrets himself in the shadows and glances back to see the policeman hurry past.
Thomas heaves a sigh of relief and steps forward into a pool of light emanating from a nearby window.
Trembling he turns a corner and approaches the back steps of a clapboard building.
He stoops down and puts the baby on the fourth step, then takes money from his jacket and slips it into the baby's blanket.
He hides as a young black couple step out onto the back porch.
The bespectacled man watches as the woman dabs herself with a cloth.
She stifles a smile.
Thomas leaves.
The man, Tizzy, strikes a pose in his fine suit and bowler hat.
The baby lies just feet away on the steps.
Queenie opens the blanket to reveal the baby, which has an old and very wrinkled face.
She gasps, and Tizzy covers his mouth.
Queenie steps closer to inspect it.
She carries the baby into the house.
Tizzy follows.
She heads for her room.
It's in the basement.
Queenie closes her door on the old lady, who's wearing a pearl necklace, then peels the blanket from over the baby's face.
She opens the top drawer of a dresser, places the baby in it, and half-closes the drawer.
She opens her room door to Mrs. Hollister.
A doctor stands over an aged resident.
Two white-haired old women laugh.
Queenie quietly approaches Dr. Rose and whispers in his ear.
He inspects the baby.
He turns to Queenie.
They stare down at the naked baby.
She carries the baby into the retirement home lounge.
She adjusts the blanket.
She stares down at him.
Queenie turns the baby towards the old woman.
The baby chuckles.
Tizzy enters Queenie's sparse basement room.
She looks at him from the bed.
He takes off his suit jacket and stares at Benjamin, who lies in the drawer at Queenie's bedside.
Tizzy sits down on the bed, and Queenie glares at him.
Queenie raises her brows and stares at him.
She wears a white nightdress.
Tizzy looks away, then picks up his jacket and starts for the door.
He pauses.
Tizzy removes his spectacles and puts them on the dresser.
He throws his black jacket over the steel bed frame and sits close to Queenie.
Benjamin stirs in his makeshift cot.
Tizzy and Queenie put an arm around each other and their eyes meet.
She leans forward and kisses him tenderly on the lips.
He cups her neck, and they sink down onto the bed as they kiss.
As a child, Benjamin resembles a bald, old man.
At a dining table, Benjamin uses an ear trumpet.
He wears round glasses and has wispy, white hair around the sides of his shiny, bald head.
He pushes himself back and forth along a porch in his wheelchair.
An elderly resident wedges his walking stick between Benjamin's wooden spokes, stopping him.
The old man retracts the stick, and Benjamin wheels himself to the top of the front steps, where he watches children playing in the street.
His wheels draw closer to the top step.
He lies at Queenie's bedside.
He clasps her hand.
Tizzy enters the room.
Tizzy climbs the stairs, carrying frail, child-sized Benjamin in his arms.
Benjamin sits in his wheelchair in the empty lounge.
An elderly woman sleeps in a chair in the corner of the dark, wood-paneled room.
Benjamin wheels himself to the glass-paned double front doors and stands up.
As he peers out, he breathes against the glass.
Benjamin's legs suddenly give way beneath him, and he collapses.
A naked old man raises a flag up a flagpole in the rain outside.
A white-haired old woman with scarlet lipstick.
Queenie bathes Benjamin with the bathroom door wide open.
She tries to straighten his stiff, right leg.
Tizzy washes up.
A large marquee.
Benjamin dozes in a wicker-backed wheelchair.
Queenie wakes him and rises primly to her feet.
She's approached by women in white uniforms and nurses' hats.
The preacher in a suit.
Queenie, who wears a pale orange dress, places her purse beside Benjamin and whispers something to the bespectacled preacher.
He puts an arm around her and looks at the congregation.
The mustachioed preacher puts a hand on Queenie's belly.
He pushed her into the arms of the nurses.
Back on her feet.
The preacher removes Benjamin's boater and stares at him.
Frowning, Benjamin plants his hands on the armrests of his chair and labors determinedly to stand up.
He adjusts his leg with his hands.
Benjamin stands, then collapses.
The preacher points both hands at Benjamin.
Benjamin struggles to his feet and stands shakily before the congregation.
His posture's crooked.
He takes a step.
The congregation clap and cheer him on.
The preacher freezes with his arms held aloft.
Two concerned men rise sharply, and the preacher keels over.
A white-robed pianist starts to play.
The flag outside flies at half-mast.
Music plays from a gramophone beside a grave.
Benjamin, Queenie, and Tizzy are amongst the mourners.
As the song ends, a man claps two cymbals together.
An old guy.
Benjamin eavesdrops on a conversation.
Benjamin hobbles on crutches to the back door to watch Mr. Oti holding court in the garden.
He turns to see Benjamin, who ducks out of sight.
Indoors, diminutive, sharp-suited Mr. Oti takes a seat beside Benjamin.
Benjamin turns gingerly to meet his gaze.
The black African, Mr. Oti, smiles.
Outside, on the sunny street, Mr. Oti tips his hat to one of three children playing baseball.
Wearing a large, ill-fitting fedora, Benjamin struggles to keep up with him on crutches.
Mr. Oti waves to a tram.
On board, Bushman shares cage with apes.
He bares his teeth at three children in the whites-only section of the tram.
They cower.
They sit on a bench by tall stone columns.
Benjamin presses his lips together and looks away, thoughtfully.
Benjamin smiles at Mr. Oti, then looks away again.
Benjamin sips root beer.
They approach a woman in town.
Oti hugs her.
Dwarfed by Philomena, Mr. Oti walks away.
Alone, Benjamin fails to reach a tram in time.
He waves a crutch in the air as the tram glides off.
Benjamin cuts a forlorn figure as he plods away.
Night, Benjamin determinedly makes his way down a sidewalk.
As he arrives at the familiar clapboard retirement home, Queenie lifts a sash window and stares down at him.
At a basin.
She goes and he stares at his wet, blistered hands.
On the lawn, Benjamin turns to see a man watching him from the street.
The man, his father, Thomas, gets into the back of a car.
An elegant, gray-haired woman.
The girl pirouettes.
Benjamin sits with Oti, Philomena, Miss Fuller, and Daisy.
Queenie takes Tizzy's hand.
Miss Fuller reads to Daisy from an illustrated storybook.
Benjamin sits with them.
Night, age six, with long red hair, Daisy approaches Benjamin's bed.
He sits up.
She beckons him.
Benjamin hobbles down a flight of stairs in the dark.
Table linen has been thrown over some tables and chairs to form a tent.
Daisy crawls into the makeshift den, and Benjamin follows on his hands and knees.
Kneeling beneath the table, Benjamin strikes a match and carefully lights a candle, whose warm glow silhouettes them behind the white drapery.
Daisy smiles.
She gingerly reaches out to touch his smiling face.
Benjamin holds her gaze as she touches his stubbly cheek.
Miss Fuller whisks up the sheet, exposing them.
Daisy obeys.
Miss Fuller scowls at Benjamin.
Wearing a nightgown, she starts up the stairs, using her cane.
Dejected, Benjamin leans out of the den with his head hung.
Queenie comes up from the basement in her dressing gown and catches sight of him kneeling in the shadows, staring at the floor.
Suddenly resolute, Benjamin rises, resting on his cane.
She embraces him.
She gently strokes his back and kisses him on the forehead.
She scratches her head thoughtfully as he walks away.
Benjamin hooks his cane on the end of his bed and gets in.
Old man Daws.
He's in the bed opposite.
Grainy old footage of the lightning striking him.
Sepia footage of Mr. Daws collapsing by a mailbox.
Lying in his bed, Daws exhales a cloud of wispy, white cigarette smoke and stares off in thought.
Benjamin turns onto his side and sinks down beneath the covers.
Smiling, Oti takes a step back, then turns and walks briskly out of the door.
Straight-backed and without the use of a cane, Benjamin goes to a window and peers out through narrowed eyes.
Carrying a suitcase, Oti crosses the road below, bathed in the orange glow of a streetlamp.
A woman with a dog.
He sits beside her at a piano.
He joins in.
They play together.
Benjamin washes himself in the bath.
He stares down.
Caroline leaves Daisy's bedside.
On TV, Hurricane Katrina.
A nurse arrives.
They stand by a window at the foot of the bed.
The nurse strides off to assist a colleague, and Caroline drifts over to the empty bed beside her mother's.
Cast in cold, blue light from the window, she takes her hands out of the pockets of her dark body-warmer and sits cross- legged on the mattress with the diary in her lap.
Mr. Daws sits beside him on a bench.
Grainy footage.
Lightning strikes Mr. Daws in a field, sending up a plume of smoke.
A man approaches them on the dock.
The captain glances around.
Benjamin looks at a young guy.
Benjamin stands up.
The bearded captain wears braces and a peaked cap.
He nods.
Benjamin boards the tugboat Chelsea.
The captain leans out of the wheelhouse.
He swabs the decks.
In the wheelhouse, Mike leans towards Benjamin.
Mike squints thoughtfully.
Benjamin wears a searching expression.
Benjamin turns the ship's wheel.
Mike grips a cigar between his teeth.
Grinning, Mike takes the helm and sharply steers the boat left.
Mike and Benjamin stand at the bar in a shady watering hole.
Mike sips his liquor.
He removes his shirt.
He has tattoos over his torso.
He strikes a boxing pose with tattoos on it.
He kisses his tattooed bicep.
Mike grins at Benjamin.
A bevy of prostitutes is gathered on the stairs.
A beautiful woman steps forward.
They climb the stairs.
The woman emerges wearily from beneath the rapidly moving covers.
Under the sheets.
He leaves.
Benjamin trots down the stairs and out through the back door, past two scantily clad hookers.
As he disappears into a crowded back alley, his father, Thomas, leaves a hooker outside an adjacent building and spots Benjamin.
Thomas's motorcar pulls up beside Benjamin as he strolls down a rain-washed street.
He considers.
Thomas sports a neat mustache.
He opens a door to Benjamin, who climbs in.
The car pulls away, and Thomas turns to regard his son.
Thomas smiles.
A waiter.
Thomas and Benjamin sit down at a table.
The waiter addresses Benjamin.
Two whiskeys.
Thomas looks away.
Thomas and Benjamin clink glasses.
Thomas smiles wryly as Benjamin sputters on the whiskey.
Later, the bar staff are clearing up.
Thomas raises his glass.
Thomas coughs his whiskey and grimaces.
Benjamin slugs his whiskey.
Thomas delivers Benjamin to his front gate.
He raises his fedora and teeters towards the front door.
Benjamin staggers through the darkened hallway, where Queenie stands with her arms folded.
He spasms, then vomits.
Daisy is now about nine years old.
Very early, Benjamin tiptoes into her room and wakes her.
She nods.
Daisy joins Benjamin outside in the early morning light.
Benjamin sprints on ahead of Daisy.
They arrive at Captain Mike's tugboat.
The tattooed mariner lies in a deep, alcohol-induced slumber.
Mike comes round.
Benjamin shakes his head.
Mike eyes Daisy.
Mike rubs his bare, tattooed chest, then sits up and shoves a cigar in his mouth.
The tug makes its way along the river through a thick fog.
Benjamin and Daisy stand at the prow, looking out.
Benjamin, who wears a woolen hat, glances back at Daisy.
In the wheelhouse, Mike sips coffee from an enamel.
He peers through the window and sees an ocean liner passing the other way.
Daisy and Benjamin climb the steps up to the wheelhouse.
Daisy waves to the larger vessel.
She and Benjamin share a smile.
In the hospital, Caroline turns to Daisy.
Daisy stares towards the window.
Lightning flashes outside.
Caroline sits down with the diary and reads.
Benjamin stares at himself in the mirror.
Benjamin stares at Mrs. Maple, who sits motionless in a chair, her head resting against the seat back, her eyes dull, her mouth slightly open.
At the graveside, Benjamin turns to Mrs. Maple's dog.
Daisy watches as he says his goodbyes.
Tizzy shakes hands with Benjamin.
Queenie hugs him.
Red-haired Daisy watches as he heads off.
Carrying a kit bag and a suitcase, Benjamin, who now looks in his late 60s, walks along the sidewalk.
He gets to the end of the road.
He stops and sees Daisy running after him.
She turns and runs back down the street.
Benjamin carries on up the road.
In the hospital, Caroline opens a box full of old postcards tied up with ribbon.
Daisy does a pirouette.
Captain Mike and Benjamin are on the snow-covered deck.
Mike points to a tattoo on his chest.
He makes a figure of eight with his hand.
The twins start to fight.
In an elevator, Benjamin now looks in his To Benjamin, as he follows them out of the lift.
Back on the snow-covered deck of the tugboat, the tug is towing a gigantic ship.
Benjamin lies in bed in the hotel.
He's found Elizabeth in the lobby of the hotel.
She's sitting on a sofa, a dressing gown over her nightdress, reading.
Benjamin is in his dressing gown.
He heads towards the kitchen, then turns back to her.
Benjamin goes through to the kitchen.
Elizabeth stares after him.
She closes the magazine she was reading and gets to her feet.
She peers into the kitchen, where Benjamin is busy making the tea.
She walks into the kitchen and Benjamin looks up.
Elizabeth opens her mouth, as if about to say something.
Benjamin goes over to her worktop and picks up two Russian tea glasses and their holders.
He puts the fly-ridden honey pot down and carries the tea glasses and the teapot over to a table.
Elizabeth takes a seat as Benjamin pours the tea.
Benjamin sits down, and they eye each other across the table.
Elizabeth wags her forefinger.
Benjamin checks on the teapot.
Elizabeth looks a little awkward as he pours her a cup.
She sips her tea.
She looks thoughtful.
They share a smile and sip their tea.
They both smile.
Heavy snow falls over the tugboat.
Benjamin comes downstairs.
Elizabeth gets up to greet him.
Mr. Oti, Queenie, Tizzy, and Daisy sleep soundly.
Elizabeth turns to Benjamin.
She looks a little flustered and heads off.
In the hospital.
At the ballet school, young Daisy reads Benjamin's card.
Looking sad, she dances with other students in front of a panel of judges.
At night in the hotel, Benjamin comes downstairs into the lobby and finds Elizabeth wearing an evening dress.
They sit at a table in the hotel dining room.
Benjamin tentatively tries a spoonful of caviar.
They sip their vodkas.
Elizabeth takes another spoonful of caviar.
They each take another swig of vodka.
A reporter interviews her on the beach.
Benjamin takes her hand, and she responds.
He stares at her through his round spectacles.
She looks up at him and touches his face.
She smiles.
They lean together and share a kiss.
She gets up from the table and walks away.
Wearing a suit, Benjamin takes the lift down to the hotel lobby.
Outside, they open champagne.
They walk through the deserted, snowy streets.
They walk arm in arm, the streetlights dimly illuminating their way.
Benjamin shivers.
In the hotel, Benjamin takes a room key off a hook behind reception.
He gets in the lift with Elizabeth and closes the doors.
The lift rises.
Elizabeth wears a fur coat and a hat with a broad brim, which casts her face in shadow.
They gaze at each other.
They arrive outside room 57, and he unlocks the door.
He holds it open and turns to Elizabeth.
She falls into his arms, and they disappear into the room.
Caroline smiles and keeps reading.
Returning from work, Benjamin gets in the lift at the hotel.
Elizabeth's po-faced husband is the only other occupant.
Benjamin avoids his gaze as the lift rises.
Evening, he and Elizabeth go to room Elizabeth kisses him twice as they leave the room.
She starts to walk away down the corridor.
She looks back.
She smiles and goes.
He comes downstairs and finds the lobby deserted.
He finds the dining room and the kitchen deserted, too.
He looks over at the bar, then takes a seat by the fire in the lobby.
As the night wears on, Benjamin drifts off to sleep.
When he wakes, people are milling around the lobby.
Looking awkward, Mr. Mayes heads out of the bar, past Benjamin.
Captain Mike swigs from a coffee cup.
Benjamin unlocks his door and finds a note has been pushed under it.
Night, on board the tugboat.
Benjamin, who'd just thrown a bucket of water over the side of the ship, goes below decks.
Benjamin lies on his bed, reading a magazine.
One of the other sailors, Pleasant, calls down from his top bunk.
He hands Benjamin a big roll of notes.
Pleasant lies back out of Benjamin's sight.
Up on deck, Benjamin and the other crew members walk towards the prow of the tug, passing Mike, who's ringing the alarm bell.
They look out into the night.
Up ahead of them, they see several burning ships on the dark horizon.
Pleasant runs up to a search light mounted by the wheel house.
Dead bodies drift in the dark waters.
In the wheelhouse, the wheelman kills the engines.
The tug drifts.
Somewhere ahead of them, a U-boat surfaces in the darkness.
Pleasant bangs on the wheelhouse window.
The tug restarts its engines, sending a plume of black smoke out of its funnel.
Mike and Benjamin peer over the side and spot the U-boat upper head.
A U-boat blides the whole surface.
The tug's lights are visible on the horizon.
Hurries into the wheelhouse.
The wheelman stares at him.
Mike hands the wheelman a pistol.
A crew member mans a heavy machine gun on top of the tug.
A gunner climbs into the conning tower.
Benjamin has a life jacket.
Benjamin gives the life jacket to one of the twins.
Lights are turned off on the tug, and Vic makes the sign of the cross.
Manning the heavy machine gun, Danny Smith cocks the weapon.
The wheelman aims his pistol at the U-boat.
Captain Mike grits his teeth, then sets the engines full ahead and steams towards the U-boat.
The German gunner spots the tug approaching and opens fire with a machine gun.
Benjamin ducks his face around.
Dann burns fire.
Mike flinches as the German rounds shatter the windows.
Manning the searchlight, Pleasant catches a bullet and collapses.
Benjamin cowers on the deck below the wheelhouse.
Danny Smith's hit and falls from the machine gun.
Mike also takes a hit and collapses.
Vic crosses himself again as tugboat plows forward and smashes into the side of the U-boat.
The U-boat explodes beneath the tug.
Both vessels take on water and begin to sink.
Benjamin staggers into the wheelhouse.
In the darkness, he finds Mike on the floor.
He props him up, and Mike screams in pain.
Mike tears his jumper, revealing two bullet holes in his chest.
Benjamin takes the captain's blood-soaked hand in his.
Mike dies.
Benjamin stares down at him.
Benjamin, his face stained with blood, stares at his lifeless skipper.
Vic cradles his dead twin.
A door swings open on the tug which is listing badly in the water.
As the dawn breaks, the tug and the U-boat have sunk below the waves.
A fleet of other ships are now at the scene.
Watched by a grieving Vic, Benjamin tosses a life belt from The Chelsea over the side of the rescue vessel.
As it floats in the water, a hummingbird flies past it.
The bird flies up and hovers briefly in front of Benjamin, then flies off.
The sun shines down out of a clear, blue sky.
Benjamin, who now looks about 50, with shorter hair and new specs, wanders into the retirement home.
She looks around and sees him.
She takes a few seconds to recognize him.
He looks down.
Benjamin plays the piano.
Evening in the retirement home.
An older Doris calls to Benjamin.
A grainy flashback of the lightning hitting a truck.
Benjamin looks out of a window and sees a taxi pull up outside.
Daisy, who's now in her 20s, gets out and walks along the sidewalk towards the house.
Benjamin goes to the next window, so that he can track her progress.
He watches as she walks in through the gate.
He comes downstairs and looks through the kitchen window at her outside.
She greets Mrs. Maple's dog.
He goes out to meet her.
Uncertain, she steps closer.
She looks shocked.
She hugs him.
She picks some lint off his shirt.
Seeing it, she laughs.
He sits on the bed.
She sits beside him.
She looks at the illustration.
She looks pleasantly surprised.
That night, the taxi pulls up outside the posh restaurant.
Daisy and Benjamin get out.
A waiter lights a cigarette for her.
She turns her head and blows out the smoke.
Outside, she walks onto a band stand.
Benjamin watches as she removes her shoes.
Light reflecting off water revolves across the ceiling of the band stand.
She takes off her jacket.
Benjamin watches, transfixed as Daisy dances.
Legs crossed, she arches her body back, her arms out stretched.
She straightens up then moves gracefully towards him, her arms waving above her head.
Benjamin watches as she leans to her left then slowly raises her right leg into the air.
Her legs and arms are almost parallel.
She twists her body then arcs her leg in the air.
She looks slowly around at Benjamin then sinks to her knees.
Her back arched until she lies on the floor.
She sits up again.
She stands up and walks towards him.
She crouches on the edge of the band stand beside him.
She plants a lingering kiss on his lips.
They part, their faces remaining close.
He looks down.
She pulls away from him and stands up.
She pulls on her jacket and picks up her shoes.
She walks down off the band stand.
Thomas uses a crutch.
There in a restaurant he glanced at an amputee in a wheelchair.
Benjamin smiles.
Thomas looks pensive.
Thomas shows him a collection of military uniforms.
Thomas switches on the lights in his factory.
Benjamin stares blankly at Thomas who stands half hidden in shadow.
Benjamin turns away awkwardly.
Thomas shakes his head ruefully as Benjamin looks around at the factory.
Benjamin looks back at Thomas.
Photos in a hallway, a photo of a bride.
Benjamin looks into the kitchen.
Amongst the framed photos at Thomas's home is one of Thomas and Caroline on their wedding day.
At the retirement home, Benjamin climbs the stairs to go to his room.
As he passed his door's room, the old man calls out to him.
Grainy footage of him getting zapped.
Benjamin stares at doors who looks around thoughtfully.
Benjamin walks on up the corridor.
He stops outside the door to his room and stands looking pensive.
It's dark as Benjamin walks up outside Thomas's house and knocks on the door.
A servant walks to the front door, pulling up his braces.
The servant opens the door and directs Benjamin up the stairs.
Benjamin opens the door of Thomas's room and goes inside.
Thomas is asleep in bed.
Benjamin gently shakes him.
As the very first rays of dawn light creep across the sky, Thomas's car pulls up outside the country house.
The chauffeur and Benjamin get out of the car.
As Benjamin walks around the vehicle, the chauffeur helps Thomas out of the car.
With the sky tinged orange, Benjamin wheels Thomas along in a wheelchair.
They come to a halt.
The chauffeur waits in the car and pulls his cap over his eyes.
In front of the lake house, Benjamin lifts Thomas out of the wheelchair and carries him over his shoulders down to a jetty which leads out into the waters of the vast lake.
He carefully sets Thomas down and lowers him onto a wooden seat.
Benjamin pats Thomas on the shoulder and takes a seat behind his father.
Thomas sits looking out across the expanse of water towards the dawn on the far horizon.
He nods to himself as he takes in the view.
Thomas closes his eyes and sighs.
He and Benjamin are silhouetted against the rising sun.
An assortment of buttons is swept off a table into a jar.
Thomas lies dead on a table.
An undertaker places the jar of buttons on Thomas's stomach.
Benjamin and an elderly Queenie visits him as he lies in an open casket in an ornate chapel at rest.
He holds out his arm.
She takes it.
The exterior of the majestic theater on Broadway, a yellow cab pulls up outside the theater.
Benjamin gets out clutching a bunch of flowers.
He pays the cab driver and goes into the theater.
Benjamin steps into the darkened auditorium.
On stage, a woman in a headdress is lifted up by two men who exits stage right.
Certain beautiful with a long platted ponytail, Daisy takes to the stage with her dance partner.
Benjamin watches as the man raises her aloft like the thicker head of a ship against the painted backdrop of a stormy ocean.
Benjamin, no longer wearing spectacles, takes a seat and stares fixedly at them as the dancer turns gracefully with Daisy reclining in his arms.
The spotlights shift to follow their movements as they pranced left and right.
Daisy toils backwards into her partner's arms.
Her feet leave the floor as she swept them into an effortless turn.
Daisy strikes an elegant pose then turns to the audience and cranes a swan-like neck.
She skips into her partner's arms.
He holds her above him with her knees bent and her toes pointed.
He lowers her as he turns, affecting the motion of a helter -skelter.
Benjamin watches unblinkingly as they part, holding each other's gaze, only to embrace again in a capricious dance of attraction and repulsion.
Backstage, Benjamin approaches a man with a clipboard.
Benjamin follows him through the crowd of corridor and waits by her dressing room door.
Daisy steps out in her underwear, sees him, and hastily wraps a robe around herself.
She turns to him.
She smiles.
She regards the bouquet of white daisies he's given her.
He lowers his eyes.
Beaming, she retreats into the dressing room.
Benjamin turns with a look of disappointment.
He and Daisy stepped out of the lift and cross the dimly lit party.
People dance and drink.
Benjamin looks timid.
Daisy offers a smile as a handsome dark-haired young man embraces her from behind.
Smiling broadly, Daisy trots off.
David and Benjamin watch as a guy takes Daisy's coat.
She dances playfully with him.
David makes a beeline for the dance floor where Daisy talks with a middle-aged woman and an elderly man.
Benjamin watches solemnly as David snatches her away and dances closely with her.
He toils her around.
They share a lingering kiss.
They part when Daisy starts talking, only to be swept away in mid-sentence by another man.
Benjamin stopped slowly towards the lift as Daisy dances between two guys.
With an arm around David, Daisy looks up to see Benjamin leave.
Benjamin pulls on his coat as he steps out onto the street and strode away.
Daisy canters out after him.
The yellow taxi pulls up.
David waits by the taxi.
Daisy turns to Benjamin.
She shrugs slightly.
He blinks.
She turns away.
She shakes her head, Benjamin's uncomprehending.
She goes to the taxi.
Benjamin walks away hat in hand as the taxi drives off in the other direction.
At the hospital, Caroline looks at the theater flyer.
Caroline takes a manila envelope from Daisy's bag.
Photos of Daisy as a young dancer.
Light snowfalls as Daisy and the young man strove through Moscow.
Daisy lies in bed with the young man.
Caroline reads.
Benjamin wears a brown leather jacket in dark glasses as he cruises along a tree-lined road on a cherry red motorcycle.
He strips paint from the porch of a retirement home.
Wearing white overalls and a cap, Benjamin nods soberly and descends a stepladder.
A postman arrives.
The postman hands him a telegram.
Benjamin stands on the front porch and opens the telegram as the postman leaves.
Clouds part reveal Paris from above.
The Arc de Triomphe stands in the center of the Place de l'Etoile around which roads extend into this brawling city.
Benjamin leaves a taxi and strides through a grassy courtyard.
He climbs a flight of stairs and approaches a nurse at a reception desk.
Benjamin sits down opposite the desk.
The nurse makes a call.
A woman leaves her apartment.
A black cab stops.
A man takes it as she turns to lock her door.
Daisy sits on the stage and kicks her legs.
A cab breaks sharply.
He sits up.
She combs her hair.
The nurse ends her call.
Benjamin rises to his feet and enters a hospital ward where he strolls past bed-bound patients.
He plows into her.
Benjamin approaches her hospital bed where she lies with her face bruised and her right leg elevated in a metal frame.
She opens her eyes
His image is blurred.
He sits down.
He smiles warmly.
He's young and fresh-faced.
His face falls.
She hides her face.
He looks at her.
She fights back tears.
Benjamin looks at the floor then stares at Daisy.
Her head turned away from him.
Her eyes closed.
A moment passes.
She turns her head to see that he's gone.
A dangling triangular support sways above her.
She grasps it sharply.
Caroline reads on.
He walks the street.
He stands on a street corner, staring up.
Benjamin walks away from her apartment block.
Caroline leaps up and goes.
Caroline wears a harrowed expression.
Her aged mother meets her eye.
Her old wrist bent unnaturally across her chest.
Caroline sits back and picks up the diary.
He sails on the calm lake.
He leaves a woman's doorstep.
The dark-haired young woman puts her shoes on as she hurries out of Benjamin's bedroom.
She stops dead on seeing the elderly resident staring at their rooms, at her.
Fresh-faced with short cropped hair and wearing a bright white T-shirt, Benjamin stares wistfully then goes to his window.
Benjamin alights his sailboat and strolls casually on the wooden jetty.
He drives a blue motorbike parked outside.
Watched from Queenie from a high window, he crosses the lawn past the guy raking up dead leaves.
He removes his cap and glances up at Queenie as he strides towards the main building.
She watches as he jogs up the steps on which he was left as a baby.
He pauses on the porch.
Daisy stands behind him.
He turns to see her standing in the doorway opposite.
Dressed in black, her hands knitted together at her waist.
He stares at her for a moment then lets go of the screen door and purposefully walks across the porch to embrace her.
She flings her arms around him with a big smile.
They sit indoors.
She leaves.
Daisy leans across the dining table.
Benjamin carries two of Daisy's suitcases as they walk side by side through the silent shadowy corridors of the home.
They enter a bedroom decorated with framed landscape paintings.
Daisy puts her coat and hand back down on the double bed which has tall elaborately-carved bedposts.
She closes the door and turns around.
Their eyes meet across the dimly-lit room.
Stepped closer and Benjamin firmly clasps her torso.
Daisy arches her back slightly as their lips meet in a slow kiss.
Benjamin unfastens her belt then unzips the back of her dress.
She carefully rolls down her stocking, revealing a scar beneath her right knee.
He slides off her dress and kisses the back of her neck.
Her hand meets his as he grasps her right thigh.
She turns to kiss him.
Her long sleek red hair draped over one shoulder.
Benjamin pulls his sweater off and climbs onto the bed as Daisy reclines, wearing a sultry black slip.
A clock ticked from Queenie's old dresser.
Benjamin and Daisy are silhouetted against the lilac sunset on the slowly drifting boat, the Bottomup.
Benjamin looks up to see a space rocket rise over billowing mountainous clouds on the horizon.
Daisy wrings out her wet hair.
Benjamin playfully engulfs her in a stripy towel.
They lounged together beneath palm trees on golden sands.
Standing beside her on the ocean, Benjamin watches Daisy as she raises her head from the still waters.
Night, they make love on the deck.
They dive off the prowl of the boat as moonlight plays on the glittering surface of the sea.
They swim gracefully beneath a brilliant full moon.
They remained seated at the picnic branch as people flee from an advancing storm.
They lie on the floor close to bed.
He lies face down with his eyes closed.
Daisy rests her chin against his shoulder.
Lightning flashes.
The wind rattles the windows.
The doors rattle in the gale.
Pale diaphanous drapes and close them in their bed.
Daisy rolls onto her side and smiles as she gazes at him.
He props himself up and looks at her.
She strokes his cheek.
He smiles.
He inches closer.
They kiss.
A ceiling fan turns beneath the slipping raft over their bed.
In the hospital, Caroline stares down at the diary.
Looking tanned and healthy, Benjamin and Daisy carry luggage up the front steps of the retirement home.
Benjamin enters ahead of Daisy to find it deserted.
They put down their bags.
Benjamin peers into the kitchen then down the narrow flight of steps to Queenie's basement bedroom.
Daisy watches as Benjamin walks to the foot of the stairs.
An elderly woman appears on the landing.
A mostly black congregation has gathered for the funeral in a quaint white church.
Queenie's daughter wears a black veil.
Seated beside her, a man in a suit nod solemnly.
Daisy and Benjamin sit at the end of the pew closest to the wall.
They watch as people grieve openly.
Queenie lies at the front in an open casket.
The man shakes Benjamin's hand and moves along.
Daisy lowers her eyes as Benjamin stares ahead serenely.
People rise from the pews.
The framed family photograph's on the wall.
Daisy turns on a bathroom tap but no water comes out.
Naked body wrapped in a bed sheet, Daisy hurries into the bathroom as Benjamin takes delivery at the fridge freezer.
Fully dressed, they decorate the house.
Benjamin paints Daisy's bottom with a pink roller.
She chases him with a brush.
Night falls and they danced and twist on the mattress in the lamp-lit bedroom.
Benjamin removes his T-shirt.
They kiss.
He lies on top of her.
Benjamin hangs a picture and makes popcorn.
They watch The Beatles on a black and white television.
A woman performs physiotherapy on Daisy's leg.
Daisy surfaces at the edge of the swimming pool.
She watches as a young woman dives into the water and swims front crawl.
Wearing a white shirt, Benjamin appears at the pool side and observes.
As the woman swims effortlessly then climbs from the pool, Daisy watches her with sad eyes.
Sobbing, Daisy rests her arms on the poolside and lulls her head.
Daylight spills in through the tall windows as Benjamin strolls calmly to the water's edge.
Daisy's head is buried in the crook of her arm.
Wearing a headscarf, Daisy rides as Benjamin half down the winding road on his motorcycle.
Lightning crackles in the gloomy sky as they ride alongside.
Wearing a patchwork blanket around his shoulders and carrying two mugs, Benjamin walks up from behind the parked motorbike.
He strolls past the lake house to the board walk and close by wooden railings, where Daisy sits staring down the length at the derelict jetty, the lake beyond.
He hands her a drink and sits down on the bench beside her.
They're cast in a warm glow as the sun rises.
Daisy breezes through a dance studio.
Young girls file out.
She locks up and deposits her keys by a desk.
Tall studio mirrors run the length of the wall opposite the front windows.
Daisy strolls across the varnished wooden floorboard and regards her reflection as she poses with one arm elevated.
Benjamin stands with his hands in his pockets.
He watches as she tries to turn but instead stumbles awkwardly, flexing her bad leg.
She straightens her leg.
She turns.
She holds onto a wall-mounted ballet bar as she puts her right leg up tightly behind her.
Benjamin has his arm around her as they gaze at themselves in the mirror.
Smiling, Daisy turns to look at him and stares gravely at his reflection.
He takes his arm from around her shoulder and looks her in the eye.
Daisy wears a searching expression.
Benjamin smiles.
She throws her arms around him.
They sit beside each other on a tram.
Daisy smiles as Benjamin stares out of the window.
Benjamin seems distant.
Returning from his thoughts, he looks at Daisy who smiles fondly.
His eyes turned to a man seated with his young flexed and head daughter.
Daisy puts an arm around Benjamin.
She kisses him softly on the cheek.
Night, they sit opposite each other in a diner.
She finishes an ice cream sundae then brushes a tiny piece of spilled ice cream from her swollen belly.
He leans back in his seat.
She takes his hand.
He offers an unconvincing smile.
He beams.
She kisses his hand.
Wearing an autumnal-colored poncho, Daisy heads off to the toilet.
Benjamin puts money on the counter.
There's a television in the corner.
Daisy returns.
On screen, Elizabeth grins.
They leave the diner.
He stops across the lounge.
She's at the bottom of some stairs.
She's bleeding.
He rushes to the phone.
He darts down the basement stairs to Daisy who lies sprawled on the bloodstained floor beside a wash basket.
Alone in the kitchen, Benjamin paces.
He peers out into the corridor.
He paces anxiously and leans on a kitchen surface.
A uniformed man and a female doctor exit the bedroom through separate doors.
Benjamin is doe-eyed.
He enters the bedroom to find Daisy lying with a newborn baby.
He sits down on the bed.
They gaze at their daughter who's wrapped in a blanket.
Benjamin watches as Daisy pops her little finger in the infant's mouth to stop her crying and looks back at Benjamin through teary eyes.
He caresses his daughter.
In the hospital, Caroline turns to her mother.
They share a look.
Caroline puts down the diary and leaves Daisy's bedside.
Her brow furrowed and her face gaunt, Daisy watches as Caroline wanders out into the corridor.
In Daisy's room, a clock beside the wall-mounted TV reads 5 to Caroline lights up a cigarette.
The nurse, eating an apple, spots her.
The TV weatherman.
Caroline stares at Daisy, who taps a fist on the bedside table.
Caroline picks up the diary and reads aloud by the window.
Now a toddler, Caroline sleeps beside Daisy.
Watched by Benjamin, Daisy wakes.
They sit with Caroline in a park.
Daisy stares at him.
Chubby-cheeked Caroline plays with a toy caterpillar.
Balloons decorate the dining room of their duplex.
Parents sit at the table with their children.
Benjamin goes to the kitchen.
Benjamin looks back into the dining room, where Daisy sits with little Caroline on her knee.
A decorative figure of a little girl adorns the remains of a pretty, white birthday cake.
The guests have departed.
Daisy washes up in the kitchen.
She watches Benjamin through a Venetian blind.
He sits on a wall outside, with Caroline in his lap.
Caroline lets go of a yellow helium balloon.
It floats away into the sky.
Daisy smiles.
Benjamin watches Caroline sleeping in her cot.
He takes a bulging envelope from the old dresser drawer and a savings book from a small box.
He puts them on top of the dresser with a house key.
Daisy lies in bed, watching him.
He meets her gaze.
They share a long look.
Benjamin retreats into the shadows and leaves the room.
Daisy sits up in bed as he heads for the front door.
Daisy throws back the bed covers.
Zipping up his jacket, Benjamin goes to his motorcycle in the cold, blue light of dawn.
Daisy sits on the edge of the bed as Benjamin rides his motorcycle down the driveway, to the road.
She stands at her window, watching, as he rides away.
Caroline sits in the corner.
She turns a page of the diary to find a number of postcards bound with an elastic band.
She removes it and reads the back of one.
Sallow-skinned Daisy watches from the bed as Caroline leafs through the postcards.
Caroline flips another postcard over and reads it.
Daisy listens.
Daisy closes her eyes.
Caroline unfolds a letter.
He backpacks through India.
Locals wash in a river.
He wakes in a sleeping bag.
He looks out over a beautiful, desolate landscape.
He mends his motorbike.
Now a young man, he carries groceries down a street.
A dying Daisy frowns.
Daisy crosses her dance studio.
Little girls file through a windowed office as Daisy puts an arm into one sleeve of her coat.
She switches off the studio lights as parents usher their children out of the building, then finishes putting her coat on as she starts across the darkened foyer.
A figure stands by the door.
The figure steps forward.
His mid-length hair is a sun-kissed blond.
His build is slighter and his skin smoother.
He shrugs.
Caroline's Daisy hangs her head.
They shake hands.
A gray-haired man enters.
Robert looks confused.
He looks at Daisy, who's fighting back tears, then strokes Caroline's hair.
Robert and Caroline stroll through to the back as Daisy goes to the front doors.
They gaze at each other.
A smile plays on Benjamin's lips.
Daisy frowns.
She strides past him to the windowed office.
She turns to him and closes the door.
Benjamin follows Daisy through a bright corridor to the back entrance.
Outside, they share a look.
Daisy turns and strolls to Robert's beige SUV.
Benjamin watches as she gets in.
Her eyes remain fixed on Benjamin as Robert reverses onto the road.
Benjamin stands beneath a concrete canopy studded with lights.
He watches as the vehicle drives away.
A strong wind buffets the hospital.
Caroline returns to the diary.
Benjamin opens his hotel room door to Daisy.
She lowers her eyes as she steps over the threshold.
Benjamin closes the door of room They stand in profile, silhouetted against the low light of his hotel room.
She nods.
Daisy reaches out and gently strokes Benjamin's smooth cheek.
He tenderly massages her left shoulder.
He draws her closer, and they hold each other tightly.
He looks her in the eye and gently slides her coat off her shoulders.
A TV set.
Wearing only a bra and knickers, Daisy stands with her back to Benjamin, who's propped up in bed.
He watches as she pulls her black leotard on.
She puts her coat on and turns to face him.
He looks at her with an air of sadness as she strolls to his hotel room door.
He leans on the windowsill as she walks to a taxi.
Daisy gets into a yellow taxi outside her large, white house.
The cab pulls away.
Now in her late 60s, Daisy addresses the cab driver.
The taxi approaches the stately, white-clapboard edifice of the retirement home.
An elderly black man sits at a table in the courtyard, sketching.
Wrapped in a shawl, Daisy ambles up nearby.
She smiles weakly as she looks around.
Daisy enters the building via the back door.
Queenie's daughter beckons Daisy into the room.
A bearded man with name tag rises.
He gives her the diary.
Daisy looks down, then turns on hearing a piano.
She walks into the communal living area, where a figure is hunched over the keyboard of the piano.
David and Queenie's daughter hover as Daisy approaches the figure.
He turns and stares vacantly.
He's a child of about She reaches out, but Benjamin recoils.
He turns and looks at her.
He has cropped, sandy hair and acne.
Daisy blinks and takes a slow, inward breath.
She takes a seat beside him, and he narrows his eyes.
She shakes her head.
She was drying his hair with a towel.
Little Benjamin stands on the high, gray-slate rooftop.
A taxi drops Daisy off outside the retirement home.
Benjamin sits on her bed as she unpacks.
Benjamin's legs dangle over the end of the bed as he plays with a digital clock.
Benjamin's a toddler.
Daisy kisses him as autumn leaves fall around them.
People mill around on the marble concourse beneath the newly installed digital clock.
She cradles baby Benjamin.
Her face is white as ash.
Cradling rosy-cheeked baby Benjamin in a chair by the window, Daisy softly covers his face with a blanket.
In the hospital, Daisy lies staring up through narrowed eyes.
Caroline fights back tears.
She hurries out.
Daisy stares at the rain lashing against the window.
A hummingbird appears at the window, then disappears amidst the torrential downpour.
Daisy's eyes close slowly.
Patients are wheeled hastily through the hospital corridors.
A contented-looking Mr. Oti sits on a riverbank.
Tizzy and Queenie.
A youthful Daisy pirouettes onstage before an empty auditorium.
Flood waters gush into the train station's storeroom, sweeping an old office chair into the corner where Mr. Gateau's brass clock lies half-covered by a sheet.
The second hand, still running backwards.
At night, a green light pulses through a mist at the edge of a body of water.
Snowflakes drift through the dark sky.
Beyond is a stately Victorian building.
The narrator, Nick Carraway, is with a doctor.
The doctor sits, listening.
Nick sits with his head resting on his hands.
Nick goes to a window.
He paces around the room.
Nick's handsome face is set in a haggard, weary frown.
The streets of New York are crowded with people.
Frantic traders on Wall Street.
Money piles up.
Dancing girls.
Illicit booze is bottled.
A red biplane does a corkscrew dive above a skyscraper.
A younger, fresh-faced Nick looks up from the busy street, smiling.
At work, Nick is on the phone.
A girl beckons from the beach.
A spectacular mansion with an ornate garden.
Men play polo on the lawn.
In his trophy room, Tom hurls a football at Nick and charges at him, barging him through double doors.
Nick looks around and finds himself in a large salon with several pairs of doors open.
Long white drapes billow across the room in the breeze.
An ornate crystal chandelier hangs from the ceiling.
A young woman cavorts on a couch.
The servants close the doors.
The beautiful blonde-haired young woman rises on the couch.
She pulls him over the couch.
Another young woman, a brunette, sits with her.
Nick turns to Daisy.
Tom glowers at her.
The butler, Henri, gestures towards the doors.
They're all opened by servants.
The drapes billow into the room.
Later, dinner is served at a long table on the terrace.
At the sound of a telephone, Daisy's smile fades.
Her eyes dart nervously.
Handsome, debonair Tom goes into the salon.
Daisy goes after him.
Nick smiles at Jordan.
Henri opens the doors.
Daisy and Tom return.
Daisy closes her eyes despairingly.
They stop by rose bushes.
She glances round at Tom, watching from the open doors of the salon.
She looks tearful.
She gazes wistfully into the distance, beyond the lavish gardens, past the green beacon and across the Bay of Consequence, towards West Egg and Gatsby's mansion.
In the dark, a man walks towards the end of a long, narrow, raised dock which juts out into the bay.
Nick drives along a tree-lined lane.
He parks his car in front of his cottage and gets out.
He looks over at the dock.
Nick walks closer.
The suited man stands at the end of the dock by railings.
Nick watches the man slowly raise his right hand.
Way off in the distance, across the water, the bright, green beacon pulses.
In the sanitarium, Nick stands at the window, tapping the frosted glass.
Outside, snow continues to fall.
The doctor walks over to him.
He lays down the open book.
Nick stares at the silver pencil resting on the blank page.
In his room, Nick starts to write.
Men stand on hills of coal waste, hacking away with pickaxes.
A filthy industrial area.
Nick's on a packed train with Tom.
The train stops.
They jump from the train and run off.
Tom leads Nick to a garage.
She eyes Tom.
She smiles.
Tom slips her some money.
Tom points at Nick.
Myrtle eyes Nick.
Nick looks nervous.
Nick sits in Myrtle's apartment in town, watching her little dog eat leftovers off a plate.
The living room is extremely gaudy, with red walls and furnishings and chintzy flower prints everywhere.
Nick sits on the edge of the couch, glancing at the ceiling.
He frowns at the sound of Tom and Myrtle upstairs.
Nick tentatively walks to the door.
He puts on his straw boater and opens the door.
There's a sexy, young woman wearing lots of dark eye shadow and a green dress leaning on the door frame
Myrtle appears.
Weakening, Nick smiles.
Tom picks him up.
Catherine drapes herself around Nick in a chair.
Catherine pops a pill in her mouth and plants a kiss on Nick, transferring the pill into his mouth.
In a clinch with Myrtle, Tom watches.
Catherine guides Nick's glass to his lips.
Catherine cocks an eyebrow at Nick.
Tom dances with Myrtle.
Nick dances with Catherine.
Chester takes pictures.
Tom opens champagne.
Tom whacks Nick with a pillow.
Feathers go everywhere.
A guy plays trumpet on a fire escape.
Tom picks Nick up and twirls him around.
Catherine kisses Nick and pulls his shirt off.
The girls strip down to their underwear.
Everyone's dancing.
Nick sits watching woozily with Catherine slumped against him.
Myrtle wiggles her hips, pulls her red dress off her shoulder and holds her arms in the air.
Nick sits, drugged.
Another version of himself pops a champagne cork.
He shakes the bottle, fizzing the champagne up, then pours some into his wide-open mouth.
Tom pours champagne into the seated Nick's mouth from a ceramic goblet.
Nick sways on the spot with glazed, drunken eyes.
Nick's exuberant self rolls about on a bed with Catherine.
The woozy Nick goes to a window and looks across at other apartments.
A young black woman leans on her window ledge, looking out.
He sees himself standing in the street, looking up.
His street self walks off.
Scenes play out in windows.
Nick finds Chester sleeping and wipes cream off his face.
Myrtle marches in, followed by Tom.
Tom gives Myrtle a vicious backhander across the face.
Nick retreats onto the fire escape.
The city recedes.
High up on a skyscraper, a workman hammers a steel girder.
Sparks fly.
Nick wakes up in his underwear, curled up on the porch swing outside his cottage.
Gatsby watches from a window.
Nick receives a personal invitation.
Cars loaded with party goers roll up.
Gatsby's immense mansion is lit up at night.
In front is a fountain.
Cars crammed with people arrive.
Nick walks up, holding his invitation.
Nick's caught up in the tide of people surging towards the mansion.
Hundreds of people move towards a cavernous ballroom.
A spot-lit dancer twirls enormous multicolored feathers.
A giant, dome-shaped crystal chandelier glitters.
Standing on a raised platform is a large pipe organ.
A flood-lit blue pool sits in the middle of the ballroom.
Nick wanders about, smiling.
A dancer hangs upside-down from the ceiling.
He plays the massive organ.
People dance everywhere.
Nick talks to a barman.
Nick downs a martini in one.
He wears beige boots, white trousers and shirt, a dark-blue blazer and a bowtie.
Two flapper girls in flouncy yellow dresses do the Charleston with a man who's standing on a podium.
An extremely attractive young woman glides through the proceedings.
Nick turns to Jordan, who takes off her hat.
Gilda shimmies across the dance floor in a cream flapper dress with tiers of tassels.
She pushes her hands out, spins and kicks.
Her tassels swish and sway as she moves frenetically.
The dance floor fills.
Nick and Jordan walk upstairs.
At the top of the stairs, Jordan leans sharply to Nick.
Jordan leans against doors.
Nick pushes her, and they tumble into a library.
The old man comes down the library steps.
He hands them drinks.
They look through a window down at the party, which throbs as people dance crazily.
Colorful confetti floats down from the ceiling.
The band wear red fezzes.
People jump into the round pool for a dip.
Back amongst the throng, Nick holds his hand out to Jordan, who's dancing with Teddy Barton.
Nick pulls her away from Teddy, a chiseled young man with slicked hair.
Jordan flops her arms over Nick's shoulders and they shimmy on the circular platform over the middle of the pool.
Glittering strings fly through the air.
Teddy grabs Jordan's hand.
Jordan turns back to Nick.
Nick looks miffed.
The man turns to Nick, smiling.
Nick gawks at Gatsby, a handsome, fine-featured man with bright eyes and swept-back, wavy brown hair.
Gatsby talks to Jordan.
He kisses her hand.
He squeezes Nick's shoulder.
Fireworks light up the sky.
Gatsby nods to them both and goes.
Jordan smiles and turns to Nick.
The older, distinguished-looking man, Herzog, leaves Jordan looking bewildered.
Gatsby watches from the top of the stairs for a moment, then walks away.
Jordan gives Nick a bemused look and goes in search of Gatsby.
Nick stands frowning as everyone else is captivated by the dazzling firework display.
Gatsby watches from the upstairs window, which reflects the sparkles.
Fireworks, like a thousand silver stars, shoot up into the night sky.
Jordan glides across the confetti-covered dance floor and up the stairs.
As Jordan walks through double doors at the top of the stairs, Nick watches frowning, his back to the fireworks.
Gatsby stands at the window, smiling benignly and smoking a cigarette.
Nick turns to look at the spectacular display.
Twinkling specks of light drift down like snowflakes.
Shimmering golden flakes flow from a giant champagne bottle.
They float down on the guests as they relax in a lounge with cushions on the floor.
Nicks lies back, looking dreamy.
He gazes up at photos and paintings on the walls.
A barman clears up.
Nick stands and looks around thoughtfully.
A woman is draped across the piano.
Jordan appears with Teddy in tow.
Jordan and Teddy are driven away.
Gatsby watches from the top of the steps.
Gatsby presses his lips together thoughtfully.
Gatsby smiles politely and goes.
People cavort by the fountain.
Jordan stands up and waves as she's driven by.
Nick smiles and waves.
He walks along the dimly lit driveway to his cottage.
He stops and looks back at Gatsby's mansion.
Watching from an upstairs window, Gatsby lowers a telephone.
He waves, and Nick waves back.
Gatsby stands with a painting of charging stags behind him.
He smiles charmingly.
When Nick's back is turned, Gatsby's smile fades and he lifts the telephone to his ear.
Nick sits in his cottage, reading.
At the sound of the engine, he frowns, gets up and looks out of the window.
Gatsby circles the cottage in a bright-yellow Duesenberg coupe.
The open-topped car has white-wall tires and four chrome side pipes curling down from the engine.
Nick comes out and does up his dressing gown.
Nick sits nervously in the passenger seat.
Gatsby drives the Duesenberg at speed along a country road, weaving in and out of the other cars.
Gatsby smiles and pats his hand against his leg.
He looks at Nick.
He overtakes.
He corners sharply.
They nearly hit a pedestrian.
Gatsby holds up his business card to the motorcycle cop who's riding alongside them.
The cop peels off to the right.
Gatsby smiles.
They head towards the Queensboro Bridge.
They drive alongside a convertible, driven by a white chauffeur, with two black couples in the back drinking champagne.
Nick looks bemused.
They go into a barber shop, where a distinguished man with gray hair, beard and mustache sits.
Gatsby taps a wall.
A secret door opens.
They walk through the sliding door which has the barber's price list on it.
Wolfsheim leads Gatsby and Nick into a busy speakeasy with arched ceilings.
Girls in tasseled bikinis and feather headdresses dance on a stage.
A line of barmen flamboyantly makes cocktails.
A cop throws a man out.
Gatsby walks through, shaking hands with people.
Wolfsheim, Nick and Gatsby sit at a table facing the dancers.
Gatsby and Wolfsheim study Nick who sits between them looking slightly bewildered but smiling politely.
Gatsby and Wolfsheim exchange pointed looks and Gatsby goes.
He leans closer.
Wolfsheim's tie pin is a jeweled tooth.
They look up at Gatsby.
Wolfsheim swaggers away.
Unnerved, Gatsby paints on a smile.
Nick looks around.
The city's aglow with neon lights.
Nick goes to meet Jordan at a rooftop restaurant.
Nick frowns.
In a flashback, Jordan practices golf on Daisy's lawn.
In battle, Gatsby leads a charge.
Nick and Jordan walk arm-in-arm along a busy city street.
They get a cab.
Nick and Jordan ride in the cab.
A bright moon hangs in the night sky.
The cab drives along the tree-lined lane.
Gatsby stands amongst the trees near Nick's cottage, looking up the lane.
Nick sees Gatsby and frowns.
The cab rolls up and Nick gets out.
The cab drives off.
Gatsby stands bathed in light.
Nick looks over at Gatsby and gestures towards the mansion.
They both smile, slightly awkwardly, and look down.
Gatsby gives a sharp nod and turns to go.
Gatsby turns back.
Gatsby looks around edgily.
Nick smiles openly.
Gatsby nods and looks slightly at a loss.
Gatsby turns and walks away.
Nick looks curious.
A bright sunny morning.
A stone birdbath is cleaned up and surrounded with pretty flowers.
Nick comes out of his cottage, in his dressing gown, to find Gatsby's gardeners at work sprucing up the garden.
A path of paving slabs is laid.
Hedges are trimmed.
Flowers are arranged in beds.
Nick looks up at a man trimming a rose arch and steps under it.
Nick reaches out his hand.
It's pouring with rain.
Wearing a white suit, Gatsby walks up with a line of staff all holding up umbrellas.
Now dressed, Nick watches from a window.
The staff members carry flower arrangements.
One of them has a very fancy four-tiered pink cake.
Nick has a tray of little cupcakes.
Gatsby steps up.
The staff go into the cottage.
The flowers are carried into the cottage.
Gatsby looks tense.
Gatsby frowns and goes inside, leaving Nick holding his tray of little cakes.
A clock on the mantelpiece reads a few minutes to four.
Nick sits, dwarfed by extravagant flower arrangements.
There's a cake stand full of cakes and a big pile of brightly colored macaroons.
Gatsby surveys the scene.
Gatsby stands, resting on a cane.
He looks at the clock on the mantelpiece, then at his watch.
The clock has a robust, angular dark wood surround.
Gatsby paces.
He undoes a button on his white jacket and sits, frowning.
Nick sits, looking quite relaxed.
Gatsby freezes and breathes tensely.
Nick goes to look out of the window.
A car comes up the drive.
Nick hurries outside, holding an umbrella.
Grey-faced, Gatsby sits with a newspaper
The driver puts down a rug and Daisy steps out of the car onto it.
She wears blue and gold shoes, a flouncy purple and pale blue dress with frills, and a hat to match.
Daisy walks in and checks her immaculately bobbed blonde hair in a mirror.
She looks into the room full of flowers.
Nick waits in the hall as Daisy walks into the room amazed.
Nick looks unsure.
Nick walks into the room to find Daisy admiring the orchids.
Confused, he looks to the chair and the window.
The French windows are ajar.
Nick smiles at Daisy who hands him her hat.
Nick goes to the front door and finds Gatsby outside, soaked through.
With a steely-eyed, determined look, Gatsby marches into the cottage.
He stops in the hall and smooths back his hair.
He walks into the flower-filled room and stops for a moment to look at Daisy.
She turns sharply and sees him.
They gaze at each other across the room.
Daisy's chest heaves as she breathes deeply.
Her eyes appear glazed.
She looks entranced.
Gatsby steps forward and regards her with an earnest expression.
Nick watches from the hall, wide-eyed.
Daisy continues to gaze at Gatsby, dewy-eyed.
He nods slightly.
They both nod slightly.
Later, the kettle boils.
Nick carries a tray with a shiny silver tea set on it into the room.
As he pours tea, Daisy sits on a couch and Gatsby stands leaning against the mantelpiece where the wooden clock sits.
Nick finishes pouring tea through a strainer.
He and Daisy exchange furtive and nervous looks.
Gatsby steels himself and turns to Daisy, smiling.
He knocks the clock off the mantelpiece and it breaks.
He tries to push the bit that broke off back in place.
With a final bash, he gives up and sits across the coffee table from Daisy.
Gatsby rests his chin on his hand.
Nick stands between Gatsby and Daisy.
Nick hands them cups of tea and sits on the couch next to Daisy.
They all look rather uncomfortable.
Nick stares into space.
Daisy and Gatsby steal the occasional glance at each other.
Nick suddenly springs to his feet.
On the porch, Gatsby holds up a hand.
He nods to Nick and takes a deep breathe.
Gatsby sneaks furtively into the kitchen area and peers through the flowers into the room.
Watching from the door, Nick takes off his boater and gestures for Gatsby to tidy his hair.
He smooths it back with his hand.
Finally, appearing confident and relaxed and with the old familiar glint in his eyes, Gatsby steps towards the room.
Nick stands beneath a tree in the rain.
Drenched, he returns and sees Gatsby and Daisy deep in conversation.
He rattles a bowl in the sink to make his presence known.
Daisy and Gatsby don't notice and continue looking deep into each other's eyes, smiling at each other.
Nick gives up, walks in and takes off his coat.
Gatsby glances at the window then returns his unwavering gaze to Daisy.
Her dark eyes return his gaze adoringly.
Gatsby smiles, gets up and opens the French windows.
A bright blue sky peeps through the diminishing rainclouds.
Sunlight glimmers on the calm bay.
They step out onto the porch.
They rest against a pillar and their fingers touch.
They look at each other.
He points across the bay.
Gatsby walks back inside.
They walk up the drive.
Daisy looks up in wonder.
Surrounded by gushing fountains and ornamental palms, they look up at the house.
Gatsby looks at Daisy, framed by the fountain.
It's an orange-squeezing machine.
Daisy, Gatsby and Nick swim on his private beech.
Gatsby dives from a diving pontoon out in the water.
Nick films Daisy hitting a golf ball.
They tumble into the ballroom.
Daisy marvels at the monumental organ.
Gatsby takes Daisy and Nick on a tour.
He throws shirts from a balcony.
Daisy flops onto the pile of brightly colored shirts on the bed.
Nick looks down from the balcony in the opulent bedroom.
Noticing the change in Daisy's mood, Gatsby goes down to the bed where she sits.
Gatsby strokes her chin and she looks up at Nick.
Nick walks away somberly.
Gatsby kisses her brow.
Nick walks down a spiral staircase.
He looks at a wall and a desk where pictures and trophies are displayed.
A photograph of a distinguished old man.
Gatsby sits on his bed, holding Daisy close to him.
Daisy rests her head in Gatsby's lap and follows his gaze to the window and beyond.
Nick walks over.
He takes a book from a shelf.
He opens the book.
Touched, Daisy runs her fingers over them.
Gatsby goes to the other side of the room to answer the phone.
He turns his back to Nick and Daisy.
Outside, a strong swelling breeze whips up on the balcony.
The French windows are blown open.
Nick closes them and listens to Gatsby.
Gatsby notices Nick watching him and checks himself.
At the sound of the organ, Gatsby smiles.
Nick and Daisy smile and Gatsby gestures towards the ballroom.
Klipspringer, a wild-haired young man with glasses, plays the organ.
Gatsby reclines on cushions as Nick and Daisy dance in the ballroom, which is lit by hundreds of candles.
Daisy spins around and faces Nick, and they shimmy back and forth.
As Gatsby watches, he remembers some time before, in uniform, dancing with Daisy and kissing her.
Gatsby looks grave as he remembers being in battle.
Rain pours down on the terrace and the long, narrow dock that juts out into the bay.
Across the water, swathed in mist the green light gently pulses.
Klipspringer sleeps on the organ keys.
Nick sits on the stairs having a drink.
Daisy and Gatsby slow dance together.
Nick walks over to them as they gently sway, then leaves them.
Daisy gazes at Gatsby lovingly.
He kisses her and rests his cheek against hers.
Watching them, Nick has a grave, serious expression.
Extravagantly dressed guests go wild at one of Gatsby's parties.
They drink, dance and splash about in the ornamental pool.
Gatsby smiles politely.
They walk through the party with Nick.
Gatsby takes Daisy's arm.
Tom walks with Nick.
Later, they sit at tables in a raised area looking down at the party.
Gatsby smiles.
Tom looks bored.
Tom considers for a moment.
Tom looks at Gatsby, slightly bemused.
The butler, Herzog, comes over and leans down to Gatsby.
Mr. Slagle, a hard-faced man in a sharp suit, has arrived with his associates.
As the band plays, Gatsby and Tom share a polite smile.
Gatsby gets up and gestures towards the dance floor.
Daisy looks round.
Gatsby smiles and they stand.
Daisy slips the silver pencil into Tom's breast pocket.
Gatsby takes her arm and leads her down to the dance floor.
Tom scans about and sees the attractive actress Marlene Moon.
He raises his eyebrows and nods to her.
An older guy dancing with a younger woman.
Gatsby dances with Daisy.
Gatsby sees Tom and Nick follow Marlene upstairs.
She smiles brightly at Gatsby.
Tom and Nick watch them dance.
Tom looks round and sees Marlene looking at him as if she's waiting for him.
He goes to join her and glances back at Nick.
Nick halfheartedly raises his glass and turns back to watch the dancing.
Gatsby whispers something to Daisy and leads her away through the slow-dancing couples.
Nick watches, frowning.
Outside, Gatsby follows Daisy through a gate.
Gatsby nods to a couple of servants and follows Daisy across the terrace.
Nick has come outside and stands by a drinks table with a cocktail fountain on it.
Gatsby stops and turns back.
Nick smiles.
Gatsby walks between stone pillars off into the dark grounds.
Gatsby walks amongst the dark trees which are dotted with fireflies and finds Daisy standing by a tree near Nick's cottage.
Gatsby, in a dark dinner suit and bow tie, slowly approaches her.
They gaze into each other's eyes.
He cups his hand against her cheek, leans closer and kisses her passionately on the lips.
He wraps his arm around her waist, pulls her close and kisses her neck.
Her eyes closed, Daisy tilts her head back, enraptured.
Drink in hand, Nick stands on the terrace looking out into the darkness.
Looking slightly disheveled, Tom walks up behind him.
Nick turns to Tom and frowns.
Tom smooths his hair back and turns to the barman.
Gatsby continues to cover Daisy in kisses.
Gatsby pauses and lifts his head with a slight smile.
He meets Daisy's gaze.
Nick points his cottage out to Tom.
Tom looks towards the cottage.
Gatsby touches Daisy's face.
Gatsby steps away from Daisy.
Slagle and his associates are fighting with the staff.
Tom puts down his glass.
Nick lifts his glass.
Daisy turns to see Nick walk through the trees.
Gatsby goes to Herzog.
Daisy watches pensively as Gatsby goes with Herzog.
The party winds down.
Wolfsheim paces in front of Gatsby in his study.
Tom and Daisy are driven away from the mansion.
Gatsby watches from a window.
They're driven away.
Standing at the window, Gatsby looks thoughtful.
Four of Gatsby's men march Slagle out through the gates.
One of them lays into Slagle with heavy punches to the face.
Inside, the staff clear up.
As his staff busy themselves clearing up the mess, Gatsby stands on the terrace looking out across the bay.
The green light on the dock at Tom Buchanan's mansion gently pulses.
Nick comes down some steps.
He tosses a bottle in the pool.
Gatsby grabs his suit jacket.
Gatsby clenches his eyes shut and pinches the bridge of his nose.
In the flashback, Gatsby follows Daisy to an upstairs room.
They stand close to each other about to kiss, then Gatsby moves back.
A shooting star flies across the night sky.
They stand transfixed by each other.
Gatsby leans closer and kisses Daisy.
They sink into a passionate embrace.
They lie together.
He kisses her soft white skin and they lie in each other's arms.
Daisy's grand house stands alone lit up at night.
The light fades.
He points up and a star shoots by.
He tosses something into the illuminated pool.
They both smile wistfully.
Gatsby looks across the dark bay.
Gatsby smiles confidently and steps over to Nick, who looks down, frowning.
Nick grins.
Gatsby heads up the steps to the house.
Nick starts to walk away.
Nick turns to Gatsby, who nodes
Nick smiles thoughtfully.
Gatsby carries on up the grand staircase.
Nick turns to go.
Gatsby stops at the top of the steps and looks up at the mansion thoughtfully.
With a servant on either side, Gatsby walks on to the house.
In his doctor's office, Nick sits at a typewriter.
A female member of staff brings breakfast on a tray for him.
Photographers crowd round a car.
Gatsby and Daisy make love.
Gatsby and Daisy lie in bed together in the dark.
Curtains billow in the open windows.
photographers continue to stake out the mansion.
Gatsby and Daisy lie next to each other in bed.
They stand at the end of the dock looking across the bay.
Gatsby looks round and sees Herzog nearby.
Nick looks unsure.
Gatsby looks round again and sees Herzog lurking in the shadows.
Herzog turns and walks off.
Nick's lost in his thought.
Tom lights a cigar.
Gatsby and Daisy look apprehensive.
Servants attend to them.
At the Buchanan's, Tom, Gatsby, Daisy, Nick and Jordan sit around a dining table.
Gatsby wears a pale-pink suit.
Tom paces.
The bay is calm.
Gatsby frowns heavily.
Tom glances at Gatsby, who points.
Daisy looks nervous.
Gatsby gets up.
Tom looks out.
Gatsby looks down at Daisy, who looks increasingly anxious.
Tom squints at the green light, which flashes at the top of wooden posts.
Gatsby moves his hand towards Daisy's on the white tablecloth.
She pulls away abruptly.
Attempting to light a cigarette, Daisy fumbles with the lighter and drops it.
Gatsby picks it up for her.
Jordan, Nick and Tom watch.
He lights the cigarette and Daisy cups her hand around his.
Gatsby regards Daisy earnestly.
Daisy looks at him with tears brimming in her eyes.
Glowering, Tom steps closer.
Nick listens with interest.
Tom stubs out his cigar.
Daisy marches off down the hall and Jordan follows.
Tom looks at Gatsby.
Tom walks off.
In the drive, Gatsby's yellow Deusenberg is driven up along with Tom's smaller blue coupe.
Tom drives ahead with Nick and Jordan beside him.
Gatsby and Daisy follow in the coupe.
They speed along country roads.
Tom drives recklessly at speed, narrowly missing one car and overtaking several others.
ahead a truck has spilled its load of crates of fruit and vegetables.
Tom veers round, squashing watermelons, and nearly hits an oncoming car.
They drive on to the filthy gray Valley of Ashes.
The oculist's holding a pair of eyes framed by rusty spectacles stares down unnervingly.
They head to Wilson's garage.
Wilson looks ill.
Myrtle's watching from an upstairs window.
Tom sees her.
Gatsby approaches.
Tom panics.
Tom throws the money at Wilson and speeds off after Gatsby and Daisy who are now ahead of them.
Watching from the upstairs window, Myrtle looks desperate and tearful.
Gatsby and Tom drive along the filthy road, past heaps of trash and coal waste.
They head across the Queensboro Bridge side-by-side.
Gatsby looks at Tom to his left and puts his foot down.
The coupe edges ahead.
Grinning, Daisy waves exuberantly.
They pass a train and head into New York City.
In a plush suite at the Plaza Hotel, Tom watches an employee chip away at a large block of ice with an ice pick.
Windows are wide open and several fans are on.
The others sit around drinking whiskey.
The ice is put on a tray.
Sweat glows on their faces.
Tom presses ice against the back of his neck.
Nick and Jordan pay close attention to their exchange.
Frowning, Gatsby nods at Tom.
Gatsby stands across the room from Tom.
Nick glances about uncomfortably.
Gatsby has a sip of whiskey and goes and stands at a window.
Gatsby turns to face Tom.
Tom stands with his back to Gatsby, who takes Daisy's hand.
Silently seething, Tom turns to face Gatsby.
Daisy slowly sits.
Tom glowers.
Daisy is tearful.
She shakes her head.
Tom looks unnerved.
Tears fill her eyes and her head droops forward.
Gatsby smiles inquiringly.
Tom points at Nick.
Gatsby drinks.
Gatsby holds Tom by his shirt collar and looms over him with his fist raised.
Tom rests his forehead against Gatsby's for a moment.
Tom grins as if he's won some kind of game.
Daisy holds her hands over her face fearfully, as does Jordan.
Gatsby looks shocked and, his chest heaving, steps away from Tom.
Daisy stares at Gatsby, tears brimming in her eyes.
He goes to her.
Tears flood from her eyes.
Tom looks at his watch.
Gatsby runs out, knocking over a lamp as he goes.
Tom pushes the door shut and the phone book falls to the floor.
He has a slug of whiskey.
Frowning heavily, Nick goes to look out of a window.
Tom unwraps another bottle of whiskey.
Nick remains at the window.
Nick turns.
Tom glances away.
Nick looks out of the window.
Across the Queensboro Bridge.
Her forehead's cut.
Wilson shakes the poles around Myrtle's neck.
She hits him and runs.
The bright yellow Deusenberg thunders through the Valley of Ashes.
Seeing the car, Myrtle runs into the road.
As another car approaches, Gatsby grips the wheel of the Deusenberg to try and swerve.
It's too late, and the Deusenberg hits Myrtle.
She rolls up the bonnet, hits the windscreen and is thrown in the air.
Myrtle lands dead in the road with a gash in her chest.
Daisy and Gatsby drive on.
The other driver gets out and stares at the scene.
The eyes on the ragged billboard for the oculist, a Dr. T.J. Eckleburg, stare blankly in the darkness.
Tom drives up with Nick and Jordan.
Later, police have arrived.
They get out and walk towards Wilson's garage, where a crowd has gathered.
Tom sees a bereft Wilson and frowns with concern.
Policemen hold the crowd back.
One of them lays a sheet over Myrtle's body, which lies on a table.
Tom steps closer.
Tom reaches out and pulls the sheet back, revealing Myrtle's blood-spattered corpse.
He gasps and Nick removes his cap.
Tom just stares.
Tom holds his hand up to the cop.
Tearful, Tom shakes his head and looks at Nick.
Tom stands, his head bowed.
Tom restrains Wilson.
The old cop frowns dubiously.
The cop walks away.
Wilson sits looking dazed.
Tom sits facing him and hands him a drink.
Tom stares at him.
With tears rolling down his face, Wilson drinks and absently presses the glass against his face.
Tom touches Wilson's face.
Tom lets Wilson rest his head against his shoulder.
Looking a little awkward, Tom rubs Wilson's back, comforting him.
Nick covers Myrtie's body with the sheet.
Tom drives away with Jordan.
They stare ahead.
The shiny blue coupe heads on down the dark road.
They arrive at the Buchanan mansion.
Servants come out.
Tom walks up and opens the front door.
Nick and Jordan stand on the porch.
Tom studies Nick.
Nick stares back, frowning.
With a dismissive glance, Tom goes inside.
Nick glares at Jordan.
Shocked, she marches into the house.
Looking deeply troubled, his brow pinched, Nick turns and walks off.
Nick looks around incredulously and walks over to Gatsby, who's hiding behind a bush.
Gatsby's face is suddenly bathed in light.
Lights come on in the house and the butler, Henri, comes out onto the porch.
He looks around but doesn't see anyone, so goes back inside.
Nick stares at Gatsby gravely.
Gatsby glances up at the lights in the upstairs windows, then back at Nick.
A flashback of Gatsby grabbing the wheel.
Gatsby and Daisy watch in horror as Myrtle slams against the windscreen and hurtles through the air.
Daisy is in the driving seat.
Recounting events, Gatsby looks distraught.
Nick stares at him, wide-eyed.
Gatsby turns away and sits.
Gatsby rests his face against his hand.
Nick nods sharply and attempts a smile.
Nick surreptitiously walks around to the terrace.
He sees Tom and Daisy sitting at the dining table, talking.
Daisy sits looking dazed.
Tom moves closer and puts his arm around Daisy, who looks lost.
Nick reacts with a perplexed frown.
At the cottage, Nick stands in the shadows, deep in thought.
He looks across to Gatsby's mansion and sees the yellow Duesenberg drive up.
Nick walks over and finds Gatsby washing Myrtle's blood off the front of the car.
The right fender is dented and the windscreen is cracked.
Kneeling with a rag and bucket, Gatsby looks around.
They cover the car.
He points at Herzog, who goes back into the house.
With an emphatic gesture and a sharp nod, Gatsby opens the door to the house.
He stops and glances around.
He looks at Nick and points at the sky.
With a cautious frown, Nick walks into the house with Gatsby.
The sky lightens.
They stand on the dock.
Gatsby looks out across the bay.
At the garage, Wilson throws Myrtle's pills into a drawer, holds up a revolver and stares at it.
He looks into the eyes on the Dr. Eckleburg billboard.
A golden sun rises.
The bay is calm.
Gatsby and Nick sit on the terrace.
Gatsby steps out into the sunlight.
Gatsby and Nick walk down steps and across the ornamental terrace, towards the pool.
Gatsby walks between two tall, stone urns and down some more steps.
Nick stays at the top.
Gatsby turns to Nick.
Gatsby smiles.
Nick opens a low, metal gate.
He stops and turns to Gatsby.
They both smile.
Nick looks at him thoughtfully.
Nick leaves Gatsby resting on the gate.
Gatsby looks up at the sky.
Nick heads off along the gravel path beneath the terrace, leading through the ornamental garden.
He stops and looks up at Gatsby.
Gatsby smiles fondly.
Nick smiles back.
They wave to each other.
Nick sits looking sleepy as others work around him.
Gatsby stands by the pool.
Wearing a swimming costume, Gatsby dives into the round, azure pool.
At home, Daisy sits near a telephone, looking pale and distant.
Gatsby swims deep into the pool.
Shadowed against a wall, Wilson stalks through the grounds, holding his revolver.
Daisy walks towards the telephone and lifts the receiver.
Gatsby surfaces as his phone rings.
A faint, hopeful smile spreads across Gatsby's lips as he climbs up the steps at the side of the pool.
He looks across the bay, to the Buchanan mansion.
Herzog answers the phone.
Wilson approaches on the side of the pool behind Gatsby.
Wilson shoots Gatsby in the back.
His body flinches.
Herzog looks round.
Gatsby touches his chest and looks at his finger.
Heavy-browed, his deep blue eyes staring wildly, Gatsby looks again across the Bay of Consequence to the Buchanan's mansion.
Gatsby's mouth hangs open.
His eyes glaze as the life drains from him.
His eyelids droop.
He falls back into the pool.
The Buchanan mansion recedes into the distance.
As Gatsby drops lifelessly into the water, Wilson puts the barrel of the gun in his own mouth and fires.
It was Nick calling Gatsby.
He looks desperate.
Daisy hangs up her telephone.
Gatsby gently floats face down in the pool.
Shafts of bright sunlight are diffused in the water around him.
Later, police and photographers are gathered around the pool.
Gatsby lies in a coffin.
Reporters swarm around Gatsby's coffin.
Daisy and Tom look up at Henri.
Tom shakes his head.
Daisy, Tom and their daughter Pammy leave the Buchanan mansion.
At Gatsby's, Nick stands on the stairs, looking down at the open coffin surrounded by flowers and reporters.
Nick screams at the reporters from the stairs.
The mansion is deserted.
In low light, Gatsby lies in the open coffin at the bottom of the spiral staircase.
Nick sleeps on the stairs.
The doctor comes in with a member of staff.
He picks up some of the pages and a pen, and puts them on the writing table.
Nick lies sleeping on a couch.
His typewriter sits on a table in front of him and sheets of his manuscript are laid out on the floor.
White typed letters appear to float through the air like snow flakes.
New York City is grey and shrouded in mist.
Sporting a dark beard, Nick walks along a street looking haggard.
A chandelier lies smashed.
Rain pours and mist hangs over the bay.
Nicks walks through the neglected garden and along the dock.
the green light pulses in the grey mist.
Nick remembers seeing Gatsby reaching towards the green light.
The green light glows brighter for a moment.
In his room at the sanitarium, Nick removes a page from his typewriter.
He lays the title page on top of the typed pages.
Nick stands staring at the manuscript, clutching his hands together.
Pale grey mist drifts over the bay of consequence.
The pulsing green light reflects on the gently rippling water.
The light dims and the screen fades to black.
The art deco screen slowly recedes occupying the black space.
The repeated zig-zags and parallel lines glow luscious, opulent gold.
Gatsby's silver sun-shaped emblem advances into the central opening.
Stamped in the center are the initials.
As she sits for a portrait wearing formal robes of state, the Queen's attention is drawn by television news coverage of Tony Blair.
He is dressed in a lounge suit with no jacket and he is smiling towards a cheering crowd.
Crawford continues his oil painting.
The Queen smiles at Crawford.
The Queen is seated for the portrait with her body half in profile.
She is wearing a white embroidered dress and black velvet cloak ornamented with the star and shield of St. George's Cross.
As she turns her head from the artist's formal pose, her expression barely changes.
A lone pipo walks along a long colonnade at Buckingham Palace.
In the gray skies high above him, the royal standard flag is gentled ruffled by the breeze.
The Queen lies in bed in a darkened room.
A door opens behind the Queen.
A woman enters and puts a newspaper onto a bedside table.
The Queen looks at the paper.
The queen sits at a desk with some corgis behind her.
Robin enters.
A black Jaguar car pulls to a stop in the palace courtyard.
A man in black coattails opens the rear door.
Tony and Cherie Blair sit inside the car.
The Blairs are ushered through a vast ornate hall by a man in a navel uniform.
Smirks at Tony as the equerry leads them towards an imposing set of closed doors.
Cherie takes a seat by the doors.
Tony is ushered into the room.
The two men bow their heads to the Queen, who's standing in the middle of the room.
Tony shakes her hand.
Tony waits for the Queen to be seated before sitting down opposite of her.
Cherie and the equerry is perched on chairs either side of the grand doors.
They both stand.
Tony kneels at the Queen's gesture.
The Queen extends her right hand to Tony.
He takes it and kisses it.
The Queen gestures for Tony to stand and picks up a small bell.
The equerry reenters with Cherie following behind him.
Cherie curtseys before The Queen.
And The Queen looks down and then smiles at her.
Cherie shakes The Queen's hand.
The Queen walks over to Robin.
The Queen shakes Cherie's and Tony's hands.
Tony and Cherie back out of the room awkwardly.
The Queen looks them up and down as they depart.
On leaving, Tony and Cherie smile at the staff.
A photo shows Diana and Dodi lounging.
A photo shows Diana sitting alone on a diving board.
Video footage shows Diana getting onto a small jet plane.
Numerous television reporters are gathered in front of a hotel opposite an entrance with a revolving door.
A group men on motorbikes wait by the back door.
Two men exit through the revolving doors.
The other door opens and Diana emerges.
A black Mercedes pulls up.
And the motorcycles swarm around the car as Diana gets inside it.
The Mercedes pulls away.
And the motorbikes follow her.
Video footage shows Diana in a swimming costume in the sea.
The Mercedes is pursued by four motorcyclists each with photographers riding pillion.
Archive footage shows a younger Diana driving away from reporters.
The paparazzi on motorbikes swerve and jockey for position behind the Mercedes.
Archive footage shows a younger Diana smiling as a photographer snaps her picture.
Now, six motorbikes are gaining on the Mercedes.
On ski slope, Diana reaches out to mask a photographer's lens.
As her hand blocks out the sunlight, a tunnel looms ahead of the Mercedes.
Robin lies in bed in a dark room.
Robin switches on a bedside lamp.
Now, outside in the darkness, Robin hurriedly approaches Balmoral Castle.
Robin rushes down a corridor bustling with people.
He puts on a black jacket, as he walks.
Robin rushes up some stair with a dark-haired woman close behind.
Robin stops outside a door while the woman walks up to it.
The Queen looks up from her bed.
The Queen switches on a bedside lamp.
And Prince Phillip sits up beside her.
The Queen exits the bedroom and Robin bows.
He turns to Cherie in bed.
Charles enters the room.
The Queen Mother and Phillip and The Queen are present.
Charles turns and leaves the room.
Robin approaches a blonde woman.
Robin picks up a phone from a nearby desk.
Later, Robin later slowly ascends some stairs.
The royal family are still watching the television.
Robin enters the room, but stays by the door.
Charles stands in a dark room with Steven.
Charles rubs his brow and Steven backs away.
BBC video news footage plays.
Tony stares at a nearby TV.
On the other end of the phone, Alistair Campbell scribbles on a note pad.
The Queen walks down a dimly lit corridor.
Peeking through a doorway, the Queen sees Charles talking to Prince William and Prince Harry.
Charles sees her and leaves the room.
Charles moves to reenter the room.
The Queen extends her hand briefly, then, retracts it.
Charles stops.
Charles' eyes wells with tears.
The Queen casts her eyes downward.
The Queen walks down a corridor and addresses a footman.
Later, the Queen sits at a desk and writes in a book.
Phillip enters a room and stands by the door.
Prince Phillip holds out a small bottle of pills.
Prince Phillip leaves the room.
People are gathering with shocked and anguished expressions on their faces.
Some bury their faces into their hands.
Others stare ahead dazed and incapable of movement.
One man wipes tears from his eyes.
Another man approaches the front of Buckingham Palace and places a bouquet of flowers at the gate.
More people arrive with bouquets of flowers to place at the railings.
Tony and Alistair watch Earl Spencer read a statement on TV.
A woman enters.
A smiling Alistair puts down the phone.
The woman hands Tony another phone.
Tony's hand covers the receiver.
He waits a moment.
Then, raises the phone to speak.
As a servant arranges cutlery on a table, Robin enters the dining room.
The Queen strides down a corridor that has stags heads mounted on the walls.
Two maids stand aside to let her pass.
In the study, the Queen picks up phone from a desk.
The Queen sits behind the desk.
Cherie enters the room behind Tony.
Prince Phillip enters the study wearing a kilt.
Tony sits on a sofa, while Cherie stands close by.
He puts the phone down.
Cherie moves round and catches his attention.
The Queen and the Queen Mother dressed in black walk to a nearby car.
The Royal Family staff watch the broadcast.
Robin stares impassively at the image of tony on the TV.
Charles accompanied by Stephen and various men.
Walks through a vast lobby with high ceilings and huge windows.
Striding down a corridor, Charles suddenly stops outside a room.
He pauses for a moment before entering.
Charles slowly enters the room and a glass door shuts behind him.
Charles stands before a casket and waits a moment.
He then walks around to the head of the casket.
Seen from outside the room, the view of Charles is obscured by the frame of the glass door.
A priest can be glimpsed speaking while Charles has his hand over his mouth and looks in grief at the casket before him.
Later, Tony sits in the backseat of a car which is driving down a motorway at daytime.
Tony hands the phone to his female assistant, then glances out the window.
Charles descends from a plane down some stairs.
On the runway, he shakes hands with Lord Airlie.
Charles and Airlie walk over to meet various uniform men standing nearby.
A line of soldiers carry a casket about their heads.
Charles approaches Tony.
Charles and Tony look at the soldiers with the casket.
Nelson Mandela appears on TV.
The Queen fiddles with her pearl necklace.
Phillip picks his finger nails while the Queen scratches her wrist.
Nighttime, two Range Rovers pull into the courtyard at Balmoral.
The Queen looks at the vehicles from an upstairs window.
She watches as two men exit from the lead vehicle.
The Queen turns away from the window.
Outside, Charles stands with Steven.
Charles walks off and Steven leaves in another direction.
Monday, video footage shows a long line of people standing outside Buckingham Palace, laying more flowers at the gates.
Bunches of flowers pile up at the railings.
A massive people were held back by metal barriers.
One woman crouches by the gates, holding a hand to her face.
Inside a large room, dignitaries and their advisers sit around a long table.
Outside Downing Street, a car stops and Allister emerges from a backseat door, carrying some papers.
After seeing the newspapers, Tony moves to leave.
Two men, holding rifles, exit Balmoral followed by Charles, William, and Harry.
Some Land Rovers are parked in the courtyard.
The Queen watches from a window above.
The Queen opens a newspaper.
Robin enters holding a tray of items.
The Queen looks out of the window and clinches her jaw.
Robin casts his eyes down.
The Queen sits down in a nearby armchair.
Robin leaves a notepad on the table close by.
Later, Tony sits at a desk with a female assistant beside him.
A nervous Charles looks up at Steven.
While, at the other end, a befuddled Tony puts down the phone.
The Queen walks with two black Labradors
The Queen opens the door to old Land Rover and gets the dogs inside.
Charles settles into the passenger seat.
The Queen and Charles drive along a country road.
The Queen gets out, opens the back door.
And the three black Labradors jump out.
Charles moves round to the driver's side.
Charles drives away leaving the Queen with the dogs.
Figures can be glimpsed on the green hills nearby.
One of them looks through some binoculars.
Three more stand still while another three lie on the ground.
In the distance, over the next hill, a stag stands alone.
Later, the Queen sits on a bed and watches footage from an interview with Diana on TV.
Philip standing in the doorway.
The Queen stares thoughtfully at the TV.
The Queen twists a silver pen in her hands.
The Queen gazes at prince Philip for a moment and then turns away.
The Queen sips some drink from a glass.
A distracted Queen nods faintly.
An image of Camilla on horseback appears on TV.
The Queen changes the channel and various images appear.
Diana in a black evening dress.
Diana next to a land mine danger sign.
Diana cuddling children.
Diana talking with pensioners.
 Diana smiling.
Tuesday, Tony and Allister walk along.
Allister indicates a nearby room.
The Queen strolls through some woods, carrying a lunch box and accompanied by some corgis.
Some chairs, tables, and a barbecue have been set up in a clearing nearby.
The Queen gives the corgis food.
The corgis look up at her.
The corgis run through the clearing.
Video footage shows crowds of people lining up in a queue.
A sign is seen.
All around the ground is covered in floral tributes.
Later, Charles talks with Steven.
Tony looks at Cherie.
Tony leaves Cherie with her paperwork.
Elsewhere, the Queen sits at a desk writing in a book.
Suddenly, she stops writing.
The next day three Land Rovers drive away from Balmoral.
Wednesday, Robin stares out of a window.
A blond woman sits behind him.
A man sticks his hand up.
Tony stares back at them.
The Queen signs the letter.
Robin looks from Prince Philip to the Queen.
The Queen walks over to a desk.
Sits down and picks up a phone.
She glances at the sun.
The Queen puts Tony on the speaker.
The Queen glances at Prince Philip.
The Queen arranges pens and a magnifying glass on the desk.
Tony casts his eyes skyward.
Tony stands up and looks out of the window.
Tony is still gazing out of the window.
Tony picks up the phone on his desk.
Tony puts down the phone and pauses for a moment.
Then, leaves his office, stroking his chin thoughtfully.
Tony stops beside a female secretary, who sits behind a desk.
At Balmoral, the Queen exits a Land Rover and enters a building.
The Land Rover drives through the hilly and woody countryside with the Queen in the driving seat.
The Land Rover continues along a long, bumpy, and barren road, which runs parallel to a river.
The road runs down to the river's edge.
And The Queen plows into the waters.
As she heads across the ford, rocks and potholes on the riverbed jolts the car.
The Land Rover comes to a sudden, violent halt in the middle of the river.
The Queen steps out of the car, into the mountain waters.
She inspects the underneath of the vehicle.
She continues to examine other parts of the Land Rover.
The Queen holds a mobile phone and dials a number.
Back at Balmoral, Thomas sits at a desk.
The Queen hangs up the phone.
Then, removes the head scarf that she is wearing.
She gazes at the serene countryside surroundings,
Then, shuts her eyes for a moment.
She looks down, frowns, then, looks up.
The vast landscape dwarfs the figure of the Queen, who sits on the riverbank, by the vehicle.
The Queen remains seated, her back turned away.
Her body gently rocks as she start to sob.
After a few moments, she turns to her left and sees a stag on the opposite side of the river.
The stag stands still.
The Queen stares at it, as if transfixed.
The stag lowers its head to eat some grass.
The Queen continues to stare at it.
The Queen looks to her right, then, back at the stag.
The stag remains still.
The Queen turns back to her right.
Then, back to the stag, which has vanished from sight.
The Queen breaks into a smile.
The Queen casts her gaze skyward, dabs some tears with a handkerchief, then, wipes her nose.
Later, Tony stands before a mirror, putting on a tie.
Video footage shows the ground completely covered with flowers.
More footage shows members of the public gathered around an arrangement of candles on the ground.
This is followed by Tony addressing some members of the public.
As the Queen sits watching TV, Philip enters.
The Queen looks from Prince Philip to the TV.
The Queen gets in bed.
The Queen removes her spectacles.
Prince Philip climbs into bed next to the Queen.
Thursday, Tony sits in bed, watching TV.
Newspapers are strewn all over the Queen's bed.
She removes her spectacles.
And wears a worried expression on her face.
Tony raises his eyebrows.
Outside Balmoral, the Queen walks with some Corgis.
The Queen walks back to Balmoral with the Corgis running after her.
The Queen enters the kitchen and the staff stop working.
The staff leave while a servant places a phone on a table.
The Queen stares at the phone for a moment.
Later, in the kitchen, the Queen sits back and tugs at her scarf around her neck.
Robin then enters the kitchen behind her.
In a corridor in Balmoral, the Queen paces up and down outside a door.
The Queen Mother stands up.
The Queen and the Queen Mother walk in the garden.
The Queen stops walking for a moment.
Later, the Queen sits on a sofa in the study and sips a glass of iced single malt.
On the misty hills, a gillie hands a mobile phone to Prince Philip.
Charles enters the study while the Queen sits on the sofa.
The Queen has her back to Charles.
Charles turns and leaves the study.
The Queen remains seated.
The gates of Balmoral are all opened by two men.
Range Rovers slowly emerge, flanked by four bodyguards.
Flash photography is taken as the doors to the Range Rovers open.
The Queen emerges, accompanied by Prince Philip, Charles, William, and Harry.
They walk up to the huge collection of flowers, which are arranged outside the gate.
Tony sits reading some paperwork and glances up to watch the TV.
Tony smiles, walks to the kitchen table and playfully messes up the hair of one of his sons.
The Royal Family continue to look at the flowers outside Balmoral, and are watched by a large crowd of onlookers.
A Motorbike speeds past.
Charles reacts to the exhaust bank.
Friday, a female servant zips up the back of the Queen's black dress, then, hands her a pearl necklace.
The Queen takes it, looks into the full-length mirror, and fastens the necklace around her neck.
The Queen studies her reflection with a fixed stare.
The Queen descends some stairs and Prince Philip emerges from a room nearby.
Looking troubled, the Queen descends the stairs.
The Queen rushes into the courtyard.
She then puts a head scarf on and gets into the driver's side of a nearby Land Rover.
The Land Rover pulls away.
Three bodyguards quickly jump into a nearby car and follow her.
Alastair bursts into Tony's office.
Alastair goes to the door.
Tony looks up at Alastair as he leaves the room.
The Queen's Land Rover enters the grounds of a country estate, followed by the bodyguards' car.
The Queen emerges from the Land Rover and gazes around.
A middle-aged man in a cloth cap emerges from the nearby door.
On seeing the Queen, he removes his cap.
The man unlocks the door to a small, stone building.
He opens the door for the Queen.
And she enters.
The Queen removes her sunglasses and glances at something inside.
It is the stag which hangs from the ceiling by its feet in the center of the room.
It has been skinned.
Its head has been removed.
There is a patch of blood under the body.
The Queen sees the stag's head and its antlers arranged side-by-side on the table close by.
She gently touches the side of the stag's head.
The Queen, her face turned away from the man, catches her breath.
The Queen closes her eyes, composes her features.
And then, turns to face the man.
She looks at the body of the stag again.
The Queen moves towards the door.
The man opens it.
Video footage shows a carpet of flowers around the gates and walls of Buckingham Palace, with crowds swarming around outside.
Inside a plane, the Queen sits and stares out of a window in contemplation.
After a moment, Robin appears and stands before her.
The Queen turns back to the window.
Robin stares at her.
The Queen turns back to him.
Robin leaves, revealing the Queen Mother sitting opposite the Queen.
Alastair is handed a sheet of paper.
Alastair sits at his desk.
Video footage shows the Queen arriving at Buckingham Palace.
Black cars drive up to the palace and past crowds of people gathered behind barriers.
Inside one car, the Queen and Prince Philip watch the onlookers.
In his office, Alastair scribbles some notes on the sheet he was given.
Alastier hands the sheet to Tony.
The Queen looks at notes on the palace gates.
Another is a crying face.
The Queen looks down after reading the third message.
But turns to face the crowd with a grateful smile before turning back to the notes.
She flinches, but quickly composes herself and moves on.
The crowd of onlookers watch as the Queen looks at the flowers.
The Queen looks increasingly upset as she tries to maintain her composure.
She keeps moving along.
Looking at more flowers and notes.
She stops, turns back to the crowd and smiles.
She walks up to the barriers to meet the people.
Various young women stand at the front.
And the Queen moves slowly along and smiles at them.
She stops in front of a little girl, who holds a bouquet of flowers.
The girl hands the bouquet to the Queen who smiles.
The Queen continues to move along.
A group of older women all curtsy as the Queen passes them.
As the Queen walks, Prince Philip follows close by.
More women curtsy as the Queen moves along.
In an ornate hall, Robin walks past some TV lighting and camera equipment.
And approaches the Queen who sits on a sofa next to Philip.
The Queen takes a pen from her purse and writes on a sheet of paper.
The Queen walks to a nearby table and puts the sheet down.
She studies it for a moment before walking up to a podium that has been placed in front of a window.
Philip strolls to another side of the room and watches the TV crew and the Queen.
A young makeup woman applied powder to the Queen's nose with crowds visible outside the window.
Video footage outside Buckingham Palace shows that the TV lights are set up inside a hall in Buckingham Palace.
Back inside, Charles enters and stands next to Prince Philip.
The makeup woman finishes applying powder to the Queen's face.
The Queen puts on her spectacles.
Charles takes a seat while Prince Philip remains standing.
Charles watches on a monitor while the Queen Mother, Tony and Cherie are seen watching the broadcast on their TV's.
Cherie turns to Tony's disbelief.
Cherie gently shakes her head.
Tony watches the TV intently.
The Queen stares blankly into the TV camera.
Video footage at night shows a procession of cars driving.
The road is lined with crowds of people, and camera flashes go off continuously.
Crowds swarm around the vehicles as they slowly move along.
Saturday, a white helicopter flies through the clear daylight sky.
Video footage shows a large park packed with thousands of people.
The crowd is facing a pair of gaint video screens that stand at one side of the park.
A video screen shows guardsmen carrying a casket on their shoulders.
Tom Cruise and Muhammad Alifiad.
Outside video footage shows the casket passing various shocked and saddened people.
One group of people stares in disbelief.
A tearful man is comforted by two women either side of him.
Video footage shows a man wiping tears from his eyes, archive footage of anguised Diana appears.
Inside the Abbey, the royal family sits stone faced.
Tony turns his head to look over at the Queen, who sits impassively.
Earl Spencer steps from the podium while outside people applaud.
The Queen is stirred by the applause from outside the Abbey.
Video footage shows thousands of people applauding in the park.
Inside the Abbey, everyone applauds except the Royal Family.
Cherie looks from the royal family to Tony, who is nodding in recognition.
The Queen casts her eyes downward and gently scratches her brow.
Archive footage shows Diana in a hat with a hint of a smile on her lips.
Two months later, Tony stands before a mirror, adjusting his tie.
Cherie walks in.
Cherie adjusts Tony's tie.
A black Jaguar pulls up in the palace courtyard.
Tony exits the car and extends his hand.
Tony strides confidently behind the naval officer as before the equerry knocks on the grand doors.
The Queen stands in the room.
Tony and the equerry bow.
The Queen briefly shakes hands with Tony.
She sits on a sofa, while he sits on a chair opposite her.
The Queen picks up her spectacles and puts them on.
Tony smiles and unzips the document file he is carrying.
The Queen studies him.
The Queen looks distracted and scratches her forehead.
She fixes him with a stare.
The Queen continues staring at Tony, who nods stiffly in response.
Tony looks at her dumbfounded.
She turns to a window.
The Queen and Tony leave the room and walk down a corridor.
The Queen stops and removes her spectacles.
They continue walking down the corridor.
The Queen look pensively to one side.
The Queen returns from her reverie and faces Tony.
They walk off down the corridor side-by-side.
The Queen and Tony descend the stairs with a corgi scuttling ahead.
Nearby, Robin smiles as they pass by.
The Queen ansd Tony stroll in a large garden which is dominated by a huge stone fountain.
A bright white light is held aloft by a statuesque woman wearing a long, white robe with a blue sash draped around her.
She stands on a cliff before a cloudy sky.
A boy leaps off a jetty towards a lake and is frozen in midair.
The traffic helicopter for a local news program flies over Sacramento, California.
Names appear beside the white silhouetted symbols for a woman, then a man.
The symbols have red hearts on them.
A young woman comes out of her house, talking on her phone.
A phone rings.
The smart, attractive, blonde woman, Abby, arrives at work at the local TV station, KSXP.
A control room.
A cooking show on a studio set.
Technical director, Cliff, turns to Abby.
The chef swigs wine from a bottle.
Mary has a swig.
Abby's boss, Stuart, switches off his monitors.
In the toilet.
In a restaurant, Abby sits at a table with the guy.
Abby takes out his profile.
He looks peeved.
Later that night, Abby walks past an illuminated fountain.
She heads along a path through the pretty ornamental gardens outside her apartment building.
She lets herself in her front door, and her cat, D'Artagnan, trots over.
Abby looks thoughtful and a little sad.
As she gets ready for bed, a TV plays in her bedroom.
D'Artagnan treads on the remote and changes channels.
He gobbles a marshmallow on the end of a long skewer.
He slurps a coffee.
She looks at Mike, haughtily.
Grinning, he shakes her hand.
Abby paces in her office.
She rolls her eyes.
On the studio lot.
He gets between them.
He snogs her.
Larry throws Georgia over his shoulder and carries her off.
Abby's lying on the floor in her office closet.
Frowning, Abby sags.
Abby pulls the closet door shut.
A girl cycles past a garage apartment on a leafy street.
Mike walks into the apartment.
He dumps his bag on a chair and presses play on his answer phone.
Frowning, he crosses himself.
Mike grabs the answer phone.
Mike goes next door with his nephew.
Mike's sister, Elizabeth, has a cake for him.
The upstairs of Abby's apartment has a balcony.
Light streams through open French windows.
In her bathroom, Abby runs her fingers through her long, blonde hair.
The cat's by a broken fishbowl.
D'Artagnan trots out of the window.
He's up a tree.
Abby stands underneath the tree.
She climbs.
She looks across to a neighboring balcony.
The French windows are open.
Inside, a handsome, muscular guy is wrapping a towel around his waist.
Abby clamps her hand over the cat's snout and ogles the guy.
He flosses his teeth, and Abby grins.
The branch breaks.
She hangs upside down.
The guy runs out, and his towel falls to the ground.
Abby covers her eyes.
Inside, D'Artagnan cozies up to the guy.
Abby's mouth hangs open in a big, toothy grin.
Her eyes twinkle.
Abby's transfixed.
The guy points to the door.
He reopens the door.
Abby's dancing for joy.
On set, the makeup girl goes.
Abby roughly forces an earpiece into Mike's ear.
Outside, the chicks pull him in.
Mike licks the red Jell-O off one of the girl's fingers and gives an approving nod.
Abby's taking deep breaths as Mike comes in with the bikini babes.
The babes head off.
She walks off.
Abby wakes up from her naked weather-girl nightmare.
Abby and Joy are in the tea-break area of the office.
Abby and Joy look at the ratings.
Mike walks in.
Tall, thick-set Mike follows Abby to her office.
Sitting at her desk, Abby gives Mike a challenging look, picks up a card and the phone, and dials.
Mike grabs a phone to listen on.
Mike hangs Abby up.
Mike flops into a chair.
Mike puts the phone on hold.
He glances aside.
He nods and looks at the timer on Abby's phone display.
Abby looks thoughtful.
At the hospital, handsome, clean-cut Colin keeps holding.
In a cafe.
In a boutique, they look at dresses.
A saleswoman.
Abby holds a dress against herself.
On the way home.
Sitting in Abby's living room, Mike reaches down the side of the chair and picks up some knitting.
He frowns and quickly dumps it back on the floor.
Abby comes downstairs, looking extremely sexy.
She wears black stilettos and a figure-hugging, low-cut black dress that stops at her knees.
Her long, blonde hair hangs loose in flowing curls.
She smirks.
She strokes his chest.
He slaps her bum.
Mike crouches behind the couch.
Mike smiles and gives Abby the thumbs-up.
Abby does a little victory dance, punching the air.
At the baseball game, the pitcher pitches and the batter hits.
As Abby and Colin walk to their seats, Mike talks to Abby on an earpiece.
He sits nearby.
She munches popcorn.
An exaggerated shrug.
The batter sprints round the field, and the fans stand up, excitedly.
Colin tries to get the attention of a food vendor.
A girl grins at Mike.
She lifts the hot dog to her lips.
Shocked, she spills her drink in Colin's lap.
A cameraman films Abby as she rubs the stain.
Her head is bent over Colin's crotch, and her hair swishes back and forth, making it look like she's doing something quite different.
She looks up and sees herself in a heart-shaped video screen above the scoreboard, the Kiss Cam.
Abby and Colin walk home.
Mike's hiding in the bushes.
She turns to go.
Colin grabs her arm, pulls her close, and gives her a lingering kiss.
Mike stares, open-mouthed.
Colin smiles at Abby.
They go to their apartments, which are opposite each other.
Abby waves a giant foam hand that she picked up at the game.
Colin goes into his apartment.
Abby runs along the path to Mike and gives him a hug.
Abby runs joyfully to her apartment.
Mike walks off.
On the show, he's wearing a gorilla suit.
A video screen behind Larry and Georgia shows monkeys having sex.
Abby and Joy watch a monitor.
Mike's nephew, Joe.
The gorilla suit.
She jumps up and down, grinning.
Abby steps out of her apartment.
On the doormat is a gift bag.
Abby picks it up and looks around, frowning.
She takes an envelope out of the gift back and goes back inside.
She opens the card.
She takes a box from the gift bag.
She opens the box.
It's a pair of remote-controlled, vibrating briefs.
Abby stands in front of the mirror and applies lipstick.
Abby perches on the arm of a chair.
She sips a glass of white wine, and glances at the vibrating briefs, and considers for a moment.
She reaches under white dress and pulls down her briefs.
As she does so, D'Artagnan the cat trots past and climbs onto a chair.
Abby picks up the black, lacy vibrating briefs and puts them on.
Abby pulls up the briefs and straightens out her dress.
D'Artagnan the cat stares at her as she picks up the small, cylindrical remote control unit.
She puts her briefs and the box for the vibrating briefs behind a cushion, stuffs the remote control in her handbag, and opens the door.
Mike and Stuart.
She smiles bitterly.
In Stuart's car.
Executives are gathered in a restaurant.
Mike puts his arms around the bikini babes.
They sit round a table with the executives.
Abby kicks Mike.
As she does so, she knocks over her bag, and the remote control falls out.
A kid finds the remote control unit for the vibrating briefs on the floor and picks it up.
The young boy switches on the remote, and Abby squirms.
Abby and Mike look under the table.
The boy shakes it, and Abby stiffens.
Abby squirms, crosses her legs, and points at her feet.
Mike sees the boy with the remote.
She glares at him.
He winks.
Mike grabs the remote from the boy.
Abby grabs it.
They lean on a railing.
They glance at the rest of the group.
Mike's gaze is fixed on Abby and Colin as they go.
Stuart comes over.
A country road lined with lush, green trees, dappled with sunlight.
Colin drives along in his silver BMW convertible with Abby beside him.
They smile and chat.
They head along a winding road through mountains, across a steel girder bridge, and through rolling countryside.
Sitting on rocks beside a creek, Abby and Colin have a picnic.
They clink glasses and drink wine.
Colin teases Abby with some caviar, then pops it into her mouth.
He looks away.
She chews, winces, spits the caviar out, and grimaces.
Abby quickly wipes her hand across her mouth, composes herself, and smiles at Colin.
Abby and Colin walk barefoot over rocks spanning the creek.
He wraps his arms around her, and they share a lingering kiss.
In a coffee shop, Colin buys coffees for Abby and Joy.
Grinning girlishly, they go to a table.
As Colin pays, Joy mimes giving him a good seeing to, clenching her fists and thrusting her groin.
On set, Mike's spooning chocolate into the mouth of a sexy babe.
A man delivers a bouquet of red roses to Abby.
Her mouth hangs open, and she and Joy do a little dance.
Seeing Joy and Abby so excited, Mike's face falls.
He turns back to the babe and sees he's smeared chocolate over her face.
Distracted, he wipes it off.
Mike and Abby sit in the SF Saloon and Grill.
Abby's on the phone.
She smiles at him.
Mike's checking out an attractive woman wearing a crop top, who's standing at the bar, drinking a shot.
Abby looks round at her.
He stares at her intensely.
Abby drinks her wine.
Mike frowns, taken aback.
Mike looks troubled.
Abby watches Mike on the monitor.
Abby steps up.
Abby frowns.
She goes to see Stuart in his office.
She rolls her eyes.
Los Angeles, the expensive modern facade of the Century Plaza Hotel.
Abby arrives outside the entrance in a yellow cab.
A bellman opens the door, and Abby gets out.
Abby walks through the lobby.
They're driven through town.
Abby watches, smiling.
Mike looks uncomfortable, then forces a smile.
La Noche Cubana restaurant.
Mike walks up to a hostess.
She leads Mike away.
The colorful restaurant is decorated with palms.
Abby sits in a booth overlooking the dance floor, where couples salsa.
She's on the phone to Stuart.
Mike sits and smiles at Abby.
He nods.
Abby sips her drink.
A waitress walks up.
Mike looks at Abby.
Abby smiles thoughtfully.
He takes her by the hand and throws his jacket aside.
Mike leads Abby onto the dance floor and spins her.
He turns and ducks under her arm and pulls her close.
They smile and dance together, back and forth.
Mike spins Abby and leads her.
She steps away, holding his hands, and returns with her back to him.
They sink down, moving their shoulders seductively from side to side.
Mike and Abby clasp hands and hold each other round the waist.
They turn, round and round, moving smoothly to the music.
Abby leans back on Mike's arm, and they dance with their hands held palm to palm.
They hold hands above their heads, and Mike sinks down.
Abby sways rhythmically to the music as Mike caresses her hair and runs his hands down her sides.
Abby spins out, swishing her hair round.
Mike pulls her close, and they continue to dance, smiling happily.
Abby wraps her arms around Mike's neck, and they dance close.
He spins her back and forth, then pulls her closer.
Abby and Mike's noses almost touch.
They gaze at each other, with their mouths slightly open, as if they're about to kiss.
Abby blinks, surprised.
Mike forces himself to nod.
Abby smiles nervously and heads off.
Mike follows, looking dazed.
Abby carries her shoes as she walks with Mike to an elevator.
He presses the call button.
Mike turns and faces Abby.
They both fidget awkwardly.
They step into the elevator and stand side by side.
Mike presses buttons and loosens his jacket.
She flashes a smile at him.
They hug.
He stops the doors closing.
They hug again.
Mike and Abby suddenly wrap their arms around each other and kiss hungrily.
Mike presses Abby against the edge of the open door.
The doors close.
Mike's mouth hangs open, and he walks off, looking shocked.
Abby lets herself into her room, looking equally surprised.
She lets her jacket and bag fall to the floor, drops her key on a table, and flops onto a couch, frowning.
She takes off her shoes and flings them aside.
Abby leaps to her feet, smooths out her tight-fitting beige dress, and goes to the door.
She opens the door and looks horrified.
They kiss.
Colin's shirt is covered in champagne.
He takes it off, revealing his toned chest.
Mike marches along a corridor.
He stops and turns round, then turns back and keeps walking.
He turns again and gestures emphatically.
Mike walks up to Abby's door and knocks.
Abby stares at Mike.
Abby goes into the room, then quickly reemerges and runs down the corridor after Mike.
He stops and turns to face her.
Abby frowns.
Abby steps closer to Mike and stares at him intensely.
Mike shakes his head.
Abby's smile gives way to a hardened expression.
Abby watches him go with an anxious, thoughtful expression.
Mike wanders off with his hands in his pockets.
Abby returns to her room.
Abby walks into the room.
Colin's sitting on the edge of the bed, wearing a fresh, unbuttoned shirt.
Colin sips and Abby gulps her champagne.
With tears in her eyes, Abby steps away, drinks, and sits.
Colin looks uncomfortable and buttons up his shirt.
Abby puts down her glass and steps towards him.
Colin stares at Abby.
She reaches up and undoes her long, blonde hair extension piece.
Colin frowns as she takes it off, leaving her real hair, which falls, tousled, onto her shoulders.
She runs her hand over her hair and sighs.
Morning, at KSXP, Stuart looks anxious.
Abby walks up to Stuart.
At the other station, a squat, young guy.
Sunlight glistens on a lake.
Mountains rise up on the horizon.
Several colorful hot-air balloons hang in midair with baskets suspended beneath.
Gawky Jack stands in a hot-air balloon.
Flames spew from the burner above his head.
He points his finger like a gun.
In the control room.
Abby yanks him out.
Abby gets in the basket.
The balloon fires up.
Mike leans over and sees how high they are.
The camera on the basket frame films Abby and Mike.
They stand grumpily, side by side.
As the balloon rises, Mike looks around.
Many more balloons float in the clear, blue sky.
Below is the mirror-like surface of the lake, surrounded by lush forest.
Abby looks around.
The pilot holds up a bottle of champagne.
Mike looks up.
Stuart loosens his collar.
Abby's expression softens, and she looks away for a moment.
She looks at Mike and narrows her eyes, skeptically.
He just stares at her.
Mike looks away, and Abby studies him for a moment.
Abby clasps her hands around his face and kisses him passionately.
They wrap their arms around each other.
As they embrace, Mike turns Abby around, and they lean against the side of the basket.
He waves his hand dismissively at the pilot, who turns and looks the other way.
Mike turns the light on and sits up, soaked in sweat.
Abby beams at him.
Now, a shower with steamy glass doors blur our view of a couple having sex.
As the woman gets out, her partner follows.
A title appears with an arrow pointing at the woman's face.
Now, the man opens the door and finds an adolescent girl with a massive golden-brown curl sleeping face-down in bed.
In a t-shirt and boxers, the man lumbers over to the bed and lightly touches her arm.
As she lies unresponsive, he barrages her with lazy slaps.
She reaches a hand out.
He kisses her cheek.
Later, he lies close to a little blonde girl and kisses her cheek.
He carries her down the hall.
Now, the older girl makes bacon and scrambled eggs as her father brings in big, colorful balloons.
He sneaks some bacon, drinks OJ from the plastic jug and eats a cupcake.
His youngest sets off a confetti shooter.
Another room, the wife and mother sits at a window with a towel over her hair.
She smokes a cigarette with a latex-gloved hand.
Meanwhile, her family hangs streamers, sets out presents and puts candles shaped like the number on a cake.
Putting the cigarette out, she uncovers her hair, removes the glove and pops gum in her mouth.
She pats her face and hands with a wipe, then sprays herself with perfume.
Now, she leans into the kitchen.
The youngest shoots confetti.
She blows out her birthday candles.
Later, the girls sit on a couch a few yards from the kitchen island where their parents relax.
Sayid stabs his older companion.
Their father takes a cup of berries to the sink.
He faces his wife.
He runs water over the cupcake.
Now in the room, the younger daughter plays a larger keyboard.
Her sister throws clothes at a closet.
Wearing biking gear, he kisses her goodbye then sneaks over to the kitchen sink.
Extracting the cupcake from a soggy bed of scrambled eggs, he unwraps the tainted treat.
He glances toward the open front door, then takes a bite.
Now, a lanky man leads the woman and a plump brunette up an outdoor flight of stairs at a brisk jog.
The brunette lags behind.
Now, a goateed man bicycles with the father.
A car darts out and nearly hits them.
Now, his wife does crunches.
The plump woman bounces on a stability ball.
Barb's features pinch up.
He affects a lonely, pitiful gaze.
In a coffeehouse.
Pete gives an earnest nod.
Now, in an SUV, he sings to his wife.
Her sister grabs at the tablet.
Now, in a shopping district.
As Debbie approaches Jodi, Pete smiles at stunning Desi, who works on a ladder.
Jodi nods behind her large, round glasses.
At the front of the store, Desi hangs a Christmas garland.
Smiling, Pete nods.
With a concerned expression, he rejoins his wife at the counter.
Desi faces a middle-aged man.
Now, on a backyard trampoline, Debbie's youngest does a flip.
Debbie and Sadie look on.
Sitting on a toilet, Pete plays online Scrabble.
Debbie opens the door.
She lifts her brow with a skeptical nod.
Debbie snatches his computer tablet and leaves.
Pete stands onstage.
In the audience, Pete's goateed friend and Barb share a table with Debbie.
The silver-haired man in the amber-tinted glasses takes the stage with a backup musician.
At the table, Pete sits by his wife, his boyishly ardent gaze fixed on the stage.
Debbie sighs.
Bobbing his head, the music producer mouths along with the lyrics.
Debbie turns away discreetly to yawn.
Pete briefly lip syncs at her.
Debbie's eyes close.
Later, Pete drives his wife home.
Pete pulls over as the fire truck passes in the opposite direction.
Debbie watches with a smirk as two other emergency vehicles drive by.
Back at home, they enter Sadie's room.
She takes Sadie's MP3 player.
She sets it in a dock.
Sadie smiles as her mother dances.
Charlotte bounces up and down.
Sadie grins, then bops her head as she gets up and joins them.
Looking on, Pete takes a seat as his wife and daughters dance.
Standing, Pete replaces Sadie's music player with his own.
Debbie and the girls halt.
As his wife and daughters look on, Pete sways awkwardly, letting his head rock side to side.
Debbie gestures toward their glum-faced daughters.
Eyeing them, Pete takes his music player from the speaker dock.
In the morning, Debbie rushes to the kitchen island, where Pete eats breakfast with the girls.
Preparing their lunches, she glares at her husband.
Later, Charlotte runs upstairs.
Now, at a school.
Debbie and Charlotte pass a pregnant woman with long, gray hair.
They reach a classroom.
Debbie hugs an old woman.
Later, Debbie ducks down in her car as she smokes a cigarette.
She blows smoke out the window and pulls away.
Now, a laptop shows a young Graham Parker performing in his heyday.
Pete watches with a mustached and a hip, young woman.
He glances toward his office.
In the office.
Graham heads out.
Now, at a home office.
Pete plucks a sitar.
At night, Debbie faces a laptop as she and Pete lounge in bed.
They view video from the store.
Desi's hook-up takes her from behind.
Debbie averts her face.
She hits Pete with a pillow.
Now, Charlotte bounces in the doorway across the bathroom between the girls' rooms.
Her own hand snatches her out of view and she collapses with her feet sticking out.
They slowly drag out of view.
Sadie focuses on her homework.
Playing air guitar, Charlotte advances toward Sadie's bed, then retreats to the doorway and flings one arm out.
Her sister ignores her.
Leaving the door open, Charlotte sulks away.
Now, Debbie steps out of a side door and opens a trash bin.
She breaks up a pack of cigarettes and throws them away.
She overturns a small pouch into the bin.
She goes back inside.
Pete comes out the same door with a plate carrying three cupcakes.
Setting it aside, he opens the trash bin and overturns a large jar of candy.
He throws the cupcakes in one at a time.
Pete pauses at the last cupcake and takes a deep breath.
He unwraps the cupcake, then takes a large bite.
He starts to throw the rest in, then hesitates and takes another bite.
Chewing blissfully, he holds the remainder over the trash.
Pete leans in, devours the treat, and throws the last bite away.
Now, he jogs on a treadmill with electrodes dotting his bare chest.
In another exam room, a technician positions Debbie at a mammogram machine.
A doctor stands close with his hand up Pete's hospital gown.
In another office.
Now, she sits in a dentist's chair.
Now, Pete's doctor snaps on a latex glove as Pete leans over a table.
His doctor bends close from behind, thrusts his finger out of view and works it around.
Now, Debbie sits with her feet in stirrups.
Two women enter separately.
The doctor winks.
Now, at home.
Debbie joins Pete in a sitting room.
Trying the sitting room door, Charlotte finds it locked.
Debbie moves away.
Now, a gray-haired man steps out of a modest house.
Pete approaches as a plane passes overhead.
They hug.
Now, they sit in a living room.
Pete smiles tightly as his dad cuddles the little blonde boy.
Two more boys arrive identical to the first.
Pete follows him out back.
He sprays the boys with a hose.
Pete sighs and follows his father back inside.
Pete swallows hard as his eyes widen.
With his lips apart, his dad drops his gaze then looks up.
Pete's dad follows his middle-aged wife to the backyard.
Now, in an upscale restaurant.
Debbie approaches the hostess.
She points to a balding man wearing a jacket and tie sitting alone.
He browses a menu at a table for two.
Debbie stares at him as she takes a deep breath and rolls her shoulders.
Later, he takes a bite of food.
He raises an eyebrow.
She shakes her head with a sad smile, then lowers her gaze.
He takes out his phone.
He steps away, leaving his phone on the table.
Debbie looks down at her untouched plate.
Her eyes shift to the phone and she picks it up.
She scrolls through a number of pictures of her dad's family.
A photo shows him huddled with his young wife, a teen boy and girl.
In another photo, they stand around a soccer ball with the kids in uniform.
A final photo shows him with his arm around his young daughter.
Debbie pouts and slides the phone back.
Debbie, Pete and the girls sit around plates of vegetables.
Debbie sighs as Sadie storms away.
Now, Pete and Debbie drive down the coast.
They pull up to a luxury resort.
Now, they hold hands as they walk away from the beach.
Later, they enter a bright hotel room.
Debbie tosses her hat on the floor and hops onto a bed.
Pete pushes open double doors leading to a balcony overlooking the ocean.
He rushes onto the bed and kisses his wife.
Now, in bathing suits, the couple jumps into a pool.
Pete holds her and spins her.
She puts her arm around his neck and kisses him.
With their lips locked, they sink under water.
They lie in bed and share a long embrace.
Pete pulls away with a satisfied smile.
Pete trips off the bed.
Now, they wear robes.
They scarf down the cookies.
Now jumping on the bed.
Pete pulls up his robe and aims his butt at Debbie.
They open their robes and embrace.
Lying down, they passionately kiss.
Now, a waiter pushes in a dessert cart.
Now Pete does a magic trick.
He holds a banana and oranges to his crotch.
The waiter stands in shock.
Debbie crawls.
Debbie scurries across the floor.
A starfish protrudes from his underwear.
Now, they binge on desserts.
She shoves it in her mouth.
He sticks his tongue in her overstuffed mouth.
Bits of dessert fall out.
Back in the car.
The hotel recedes in the distance.
Debbie holds out her hand.
Pete squeezes it and gives her a loving smile.
They share a tender look.
They turn back to the road.
As they pull into their driveway, the smile fades from Pete's face.
Debbie tightens her lips.
Pete faces his wife.
They linger in the car as Sadie and Jodi emerge from the house.
Pete turns to Debbie with a cold stare.
In Charlotte's bedroom.
She glares at Pete.
He shrugs.
Pete sits in the corner.
Now, Pete rides his bike with a group.
At the house, Debbie enters the kitchen.
In the bathroom, Pete lies back with his legs in the air.
Debbie enters with an astonished expression.
He takes cell phone photos of a mirror aimed at his spread butt cheeks.
She blinks.
He raises his legs higher.
Debbie rolls her eyes and crosses her arms.
Pete stares at her with his legs spread.
She takes a brief look, then walks away.
He sits up.
At the boutique, Debbie watches Desi while she folds clothing with Jodi.
She looks back at Desi.
Jodi's eyes follow.
Debbie strolls over to Desi.
Desi pulls a brown top from a clothing rack.
She steps over to a dressing area.
She takes off her top.
Debbie reaches out a hand and grabs Desi's breast.
She squeezes it.
Now, she jiggles both breasts.
At work, Pete takes a call.
Now, from the backyard.
Sadie and her friend chase the triplets into the kitchen.
The triplets follow Charlotte out of the room.
Pete spots his dad and walks away.
Debbie gives a reassuring nod.
Pete looks at Sadie's tablet.
He shows her the tablet.
Pete grabs his phone.
In another room.
Pete ends the call.
Now, Pete drives with a glower.
Riding shotgun, Sadie sings along with uninhibited enthusiasm.
Charlotte bounces up and down in the back seat.
Pete rolls his eyes.
In an office, Debbie sits facing a man in a shirt and tie.
Now, Pete stalks into Unfiltered Records.
As he approaches a private office, he sees Ronnie coloring in squares along a chalkboard wall.
Pete steps in with a scowl.
Pete marches out.
In an office, Debbie faces her gynecologist.
Debbie cocks her head, her mouth twitching.
She stares, her head tilted to the side.
Averting her woeful gaze, she rubs her fingers across her throat.
The doctor's smile fades.
Fighting tears, she nods then shakes her head.
Gazing upward, Debbie rubs her brow and throat.
She strokes her forehead.
Now, the sunlight casts a bright glow off of Debbie's long, golden blonde hair as she drives.
Pouting, she lifts her chin and leans back against the headrest.
She takes a deep breath.
Debbie props her elbow on the windowsill and rubs her knuckles against her temple.
She starts to smile, then presses her lips together and blinks back tears.
Debbie takes the steering wheel in both hands and allows a hopeful smile.
In his office, Pete sits at his desk glowering.
He presses his lips together.
Going to a wall, he takes down a framed piece of artwork.
Now, Pete clutches the crude pen and ink drawing as he stands at his father's front door.
On a stage, kids paint a set.
Sadie's parents watch from a row in the back.
Debbie stares at him.
Now, the school's outdoor walkways bustle with kids around Sadie's age.
Walking a more isolated path, Debbie spots a blonde boy with a prop.
She steps in close.
Now, sitting on the toilet, Pete plays a game on his tablet.
Debbie opens the door, dressed in a slinky outfit.
Leaving, she carelessly slides the door shut.
It bounces back open.
Pete flips her off.
Now in a club.
Later, they face several men.
He removes a partial.
Desi puts them in her mouth.
Desi drapes her arms around Debbie, who laughs as the younger woman pulls her clothes.
Desi returns the partial to a man with a shaved head.
He snaps them in and smiles.
On stage, at the Belasco.
The crowd springs to its feet as the aging rockers take the stage.
Many seats remain unoccupied toward the back and the balcony.
At the bar, Pete wears a furrowed brow.
Ronnie gives them a cowed wave.
At the dance club, Desi and the hockey players surround Debbie as she pumps her fists.
Later, the two women writhe sideways across the floor like MC Hammer.
Now, Desi sways between two hockey players.
Later, Debbie snakes side-to-side behind the younger woman.
Debbie twirls her long, sweaty hair.
Now, a tall, boyishly handsome hockey player with a blonde beard dances with the two women.
Then does air claws with Debbie.
Later, he sits with her.
His mouth hangs open.
Then, he smiles.
At the Belasco, the band sits at a table while roadies clear the stage.
The two rockers leave, patting each other's backs.
Now, Pete sits in his car with his eyes glistening.
His mouth twists in a sob.
He hangs his head and squeezes his eyes shut.
He lifts his head back, his chin quivering.
Pete's gaze calms.
He swallows hard.
He bursts into tears all over again.
Now, Debbie's car pulls up at an upscale apartment building.
A doorman stands out front.
Debbie stares at her awkwardly.
Nodding, Desi gives a proud smile.
Now, Pete lies on the bed using his tablet as Debbie enters.
Debbie's smile fades as she stands before him, her sweater open with a nipple exposed.
Pete glances between his tablet and his wife several times.
Pete eyes her up and down, then closes the tablet case.
She covers herself and walks away, as Pete remains in bed fully clothed with sneakers on.
He grabs the tablet.
Debbie reenters, fully clothed.
She glares at Pete as he sits.
Debbie raises a brow and nods.
In her room, Charlotte plays her keyboard.
Debbie slowly shakes her head.
Pete's mouth hangs open as he glares at his wife.
Debbie nods with a disheartened gaze.
She puts her hands on her hips and looks at the floor.
Pete stares forward as she walks away.
Debbie raises her arms, then leaves the room.
Lying between her parents, Charlotte sucks her fingers.
Sadie lies at the foot of the bed and turns around.
Charlotte touches Sadie with her slobbery fingers.
Sadie hops out of bed and storms off down the hall.
Sitting up, Charlotte faces her dad.
Charlotte jumps off the bed and scurries away, leaving a wide gap between her parents.
Glancing at Pete, Debbie yanks the bedspread toward her and faces the TV.
They both stare forward.
Sitting at her desk, Charlotte writes a note in red marker.
She hangs it on Sadie's door.
Pete wears headphones at his desk.
Sadie watches something on her tablet.
Now, Debbie lies with Charlotte in her bed.
Debbie leans over and kisses Charlotte's lips.
In the morning, Pete awakens on the couch, hanging off in an awkward position.
He props himself up and grips his shoulder.
Now, Pete sips coffee at the island with his back to the table as his family eats breakfast.
Pete glances back, then eyes his mug.
Now, Pete drives the kids to school.
He sloppily eats an egg sandwich and sings.
Sadie eyes her father, then looks away.
Charlotte's eyes widen.
Now, at school.
Charlotte puts on headphones as Pete walks her to class.
They pass the gray-haired pregnant woman.
Pete stops his daughter and kisses her on the head.
He starts to leave.
A fat woman approaches with Joseph.
Joseph stands a dozen feet away.
He pokes her several times.
In a coffee shop, Debbie sits with Jodi.
Debbie grabs her phone.
Jodi narrows her eyes.
Now, in a school office.
Debbie nods.
Jill glares.
Debbie shrugs.
Pete nods slowly.
Now, they exit the school and walk side by side, both wearing mischievous grins.
Debbie glances at Pete, who glances back.
They continue walking, coyly avoiding each other's gaze.
Entering the parking lot together, Debbie moves in front of Pete and heads to her silver SUV.
Pete strolls toward his blue Sedan and pulls the keys from his pocket.
He briefly glances toward her.
The couple enters separate vehicles at the same time.
Later, at home.
Pete and Charlotte sit at the table as Debbie serves the chicken.
Debbie looks at Pete.
Sadie storms away.
Sitting down, Debbie rests her head on her hand.
Later, in her room, Sadie sits on her bed doing homework.
Charlotte's door slides open across the bathroom they share.
She emerges with an armful of things.
She places Sadie's computer, phone and tablet on her bed, then leaves.
Sadie grabs her phone and smiles.
She looks toward her younger sister as the door slides shut.
Downstairs, Debbie sits on the couch as Pete paces.
Pete moves close.
They embrace.
A main character, Jack, lies on the ground dying as a plane flies overhead.
Pete enters the room and finds Sadie with tears in her eyes.
He holds up both hands.
Now, Debbie prepares for the party as Barb enters the kitchen.
By the pool, Pete and his goateed friend watch Desi in a bikini.
They watch Desi swim with Charlotte.
Barb glances toward the pool.
Debbie notices Desi.
The guys look toward their wives and wave.
Now, Pete greets guests and accepts presents.
Now, Pete stands with Ronnie.
Jason turns Debbie around.
Jason stares at Pete.
Ronnie stares off.
They quickly leave.
Jason moves next to Ronnie.
They exchange awkward smiles.
They notice Desi swimming.
Now, Debbie opens the door for her father.
Her father furrows his brows.
Pete looks down at the box and smiles.
In the buffet line, Barb's husband turns to Debbie's father.
Larry extends his hand.
Desi and the girls approach.
Larry hugs Desi.
Larry eyes Oliver.
Charlotte takes Oliver's hand.
Debbie gives them a look.
Now, Desi swims in slow motion under water.
Jason and Ronnie swim side-by-side.
The three meet in the middle.
Desi surfaces.
The guys follow her up, emerging beside each other.
The guys face each other.
Jason gazes into her eyes.
Treading water, Desi smiles.
She turns and swims away.
The guys glance at each other and quickly follow.
Now, Larry stands with Oliver as he eats.
Oliver winks and takes a bite.
Jason and Ronnie sit with Desi.
Desi sits back and smiles.
At another table.
Larry nods and eyes Pete and Debbie.
Pete nods with her.
With Desi, Ronnie and Jason.
Ronnie glances between them.
Debbie glares to Pete.
He stops and looks at all of them.
She turns to Oliver.
Debbie and Pete roll their eyes.
Oliver nods at Pete.
Barb looks down.
Now, Graham Parker leads the guests in song.
Pete smiles at his wife, then leans toward his electric guitar shaped cake.
She tilts her head with a slight grin.
Oliver catches her gaze.
Larry's triplets attack the cake and lick the frosting tuning pegs.
Now, Debbie hides behind some bushes with a cigarette in her mouth, desperately flicking and shaking a lighter.
Sadie rounds the corner.
She catches her mom and startles her.
Debbie drops her cigarette and heads to the house.
Debbie faces Pete and raises her arms.
Sadie gawks at her mom as she storms away.
Pete hurls his half-eaten cupcake at the kitchen wall, then hurries past his daughters.
Pete marches to Debbie.
Oliver leaves past Debbie.
She follows him out.
She stares at him slack-jawed.
Pete rides his bike across the front lawn.
Sadie watches him go.
Debbie turns to see Pete zoom out of the driveway.
He races down a suburban street wearing his helmet and yellow-tinted sunglasses.
He speeds through an intersection.
Continuing onto a busy street, Pete cuts off a car that narrowly avoids him.
An SUV pulls up beside him.
Back in the kitchen.
Oliver cleans up outside.
Sadie approaches with Joseph.
Debbie smiles.
Joseph avoids her gaze.
Sadie leaves.
Joseph follows.
Pete speeds down the middle of a street, slowing down traffic.
Holding out his middle finger, he waves a guy past.
A car turns right in front of him.
The SUV accelerates ahead.
Oliver sits with the girls.
He glances back at Sadie.
He flashes a smile.
Oliver runs off.
Sadie grabs her sister.
Pete rides through a red light and makes a left between oncoming cars.
Left onto a quiet side street, he soars down a winding hilly road.
Pete coasts around a corner and stands upright.
He accelerates past a group of serious cyclists.
Debbie drives with Larry in her SUV.
Pete makes a left at an empty intersection.
He rides past a white picket fence.
A car door swings open.
A husky man looks down at him.
Debbie drives by.
He punches Pete in the face.
The man easily absorbs Pete's stomach punch, then knocks Pete over with one.
Debbie gets out and runs to Pete.
The man gets in his SUV as Pete writhes in glass.
The man pulls away.
Pete sees the dealer license plate.
He puts his head down as Debbie arrives.
Now, in a hospital hallway, Debbie shakes her head as she sits with Larry.
A nurse approaches.
The nurse steps away.
She gives an incredulous look.
She hugs him.
He gives her back a fatherly pat as she clings to him.
They part.
He takes the bill.
As he shuffles off, Debbie watches him go with a little smile.
On the island, the hero Jack lies dying with Vincent the dog at his side.
Oliver watches with the girls and Joseph.
Holding Charlotte close, Oliver lifts his chin.
Now, in the hospital hallway.
A window shows Pete on a bed.
He sports a bruised, swollen eye.
Debbie walks in with a sympathetic smile.
He waves.
She perches beside him on the edge of the bed.
Her injured husband regards her gravely.
Debbie smiles at him.
Debbie stands and starts to help him up.
He winces, then swings one leg over the bed.
As she tries to help him again, Pete sits up and kisses her.
They share a tender, lingering smooch.
Now at a music club.
A young singer with moppy dark brown hair strums a guitar at the mic.
Debbie brings Pete a bottle of beer.
Setting her own drink down, she faces the stage and takes his hand.
Pete shrugs and gives a delighted smile.
Debbie smiles encouragingly.
They share a warm grin, then face the stage.
Standing at their table, Pete and Debbie hold hands and share a loving smile.
Pete leans in and tenderly kisses his wife's lips.
They part with a mutually appreciative gaze, then enjoy the song together amidst the crowded music club.
A wave crashes against a rock in a bay.
Bright sunlight shines through clouds.
Mountains give way to dense trees.
A bell tower rises above the trees.
Fluffy white clouds float in a blue sky.
Way down below is the ever-changing landscape of the United States of America -- lush mountains, densely packed cities and vast patchworks of fields.
The screen splits.
More aerial views.
A coastal city.
A freeway cutting across lush, green parkland.
A meandering river.
Circular fields spread across the land.
Snow-capped mountains.
A jagged, rocky coastline.
A jet comes into land on the runway.
A thick-set man wearing a suit.
Steve clears the table.
Shreds documents.
Pours bleach in a coffee jar.
And aims a rifle at the office.
Ryan Bingham, a suavely seated man in his late with neat graying hair and a side parting.
Steve hands over his key card.
At the door.
In a hotel room, Ryan packs a suitcase with military precision.
He studies a pouch full of ties, closes it, and puts it in the case.
He zips up the suitcase, pulls out its handle, and drags it out of the room, switching off the light as he goes.
At an airport, Ryan drops off a rental car.
He walks up to the First Class priority access desk.
Ryan grabs his boarding pass and walks up to the security desk, where he shows the pass to a security guard.
Ryan puts his case on a table and grabs two gray plastic trays.
He then puts his laptop, his shoes and his suit jacket into the trays.
He steps up to the walk-through metal detector, holds up his boarding pass and walks through.
A uniformed security man checks the pass.
Ryan puts his jacket and shoes back on, zips up his case, pulls out the handle, and walks off with it.
A jet flies above a blanket of fluffy, white clouds.
Ryan sits in First Class.
He watches a flight attendant walk down the aisle pushing a trolley.
She hands a passenger a drink.
Ryan looks up at her, frowning.
She puts the can of soda back on the trolley and walks on.
Ryan smiles.
The jet comes in to land.
Ryan unzips a backpack and stands behind a lectern.
A few delegates sit at long tables.
He smiles.
At the airport, Ryan walks up to a desk with a sign beside it.
He shows a card.
He drags his case into a lounge and sits in a leather armchair.
He looks at a piece of paper and makes a phone call.
Ryan looks surprised.
Dallas at night, a vast city of lights.
At the airport, an American Airlines jet taxis.
At the Hilton, Ryan sits in the low-lit bar, savoring a cool drink.
He watches a young woman who is staring at her cellphone.
In her other hand is a set of car keys.
She looks at her key fob.
She's incredulous.
They sit, comparing loyalty cards.
She stares at the card.
Alex's eyes sparkle.
She studies the concierge key.
Alex smiles thoughtfully.
Ryan smiles.
They head to a room.
Alex is an attractive woman with long, straight auburn hair.
He tries a swipe card at a door, but it doesn't open.
He opens the door with another card.
They go in.
Alex, in her 30s, with a curvaceous figure, walks across the room, naked apart from a tie around her waist.
She lies on the bed.
The sheets are unruffled.
Ryan is laying on cushions on the floor.
Alex and Ryan sit facing each other and open their laptop computers.
They both type an entry and close their computers.
Ryan stands by as Alex opens her hotel room door.
She turns to him.
They kiss.
They smile.
She goes inside.
She closes the door.
He hangs a sign on the handle.
Ryan swims in the hotel swimming pool.
He has his shoes shined and hires a car.
Hertz employees swipe his loyalty card through card-reading machines.
In a gents outfit, as Ryan looks at ties.
He takes out his cellphone and looks at the display.
Circular fields in various stages of production stretch to the horizon.
The fields are green, brown and muddy yellow.
Grid pattern city streets.
Ryan arrives in Omaha.
In his apartment block, Ryan pulls his case along a hall.
He lets himself into his small, sparsely furnished apartment.
He puts his keys on a worktop, pulls back a brown plastic concertina screen and lays his case on the bed.
A young woman comes in holding a large envelope.
She knocks on the worktop.
Ryan takes out a large photo of a hugging couple stuck on a board.
She smiles at him fondly and goes.
Ryan looks at the photo of the smiling couple.
A modern office building.
The boss, Craig Gregory, has a meeting with Ryan and his colleagues.
Prim, ponytailed Natalie stands by a screen.
A guy appears on the screen.
Ryan frowns, worried.
Ryan goes to see Craig.
Ryan smiles, bitterly.
She sits facing Ryan.
Chastised, Natalie sits back and looks down.
Later, Craig goes to see Ryan in his office.
Ryan is standing, staring at a map of the U.S.
Ryan turns to Craig.
Ryan raises his eyebrows.
Craig curls a piece of paper and holds up a finger.
Craig shakes his head.
Ryan screws up the piece of paper and throws it in the bin.
At home, he takes pristine white T-shirts off a shelf and lays them in his suitcase with the rest of his clothes.
He packs his tie pouch, straightens up and sees the cardboard cut-out.
He picks up the photo and holds it over his case length- wise and cross-wise.
Wearing a sharp charcoal gray suit, Ryan walks trough the airport, dragging the case.
Julie and Jim's smiling faces are poking out of the top.
Ryan stops and stares.
Outside, Natalie is embracing a big beefy guy.
Ryan slides his swipe card through the slot on the self- service check-in machine, then collects his boarding pass.
Ryan steps away with case in tow.
He wearily raises his eyebrows as he watches Natalie come in.
She stoops slightly as she drags a large unwieldy suitcase.
She has a large black bag slung over her shoulder and a coat over.
Ryan looks at her and sighs.
She looks blank.
At a luggage store, Ryan wheels a wheelie case back and forth.
Natalie kneels on the floor, transferring her belongings from her hefty suitcase to the neater, smaller wheelie case.
Ryan grabs a travel pillow.
He bins it.
He bins a full-size pillow.
At security, Ryan sees a group of businessmen.
Ryan collects his things on the other side of the X-ray machine.
Natalie is being scanned.
Natalie takes off a bracelet.
On the plane, she and Ryan sit side-by-side with the isle between them.
Natalie types on her laptop.
He looks across at her.
She stares at him.
With a dismissive glance, she gets back to work.
Ryan smiles wryly.
St. Louis.
As they walk through the terminal building, Ryan gets a call from Alex.
A smile spreads across Ryan's face.
Ryan walks through an open-plan office with Natalie, who's clutching a pile of strategy packets.
Office workers stare at them as they head to a private office.
Natalie silently seethes.
An older balding man holds up a photo of two young girls.
Sitting opposite him, Ryan glances down.
Natalie is beside Ryan.
Ryan is incredulous.
Bob sits back resigned.
Bob shakes his head.
Natalie studies Ryan.
Craggy-faced Bob stares at Ryan thoughtfully.
He glances down at the photos of his girls.
Ryan nods to Natalie, who picks up one of the strategy packets and hands it to Bob.
Bob looks at the packet and takes it.
At the Hilton, Natalie follows Ryan into the lobby.
A woman stares as he walks past the queue and up to the desk.
He hands her a leaflet.
She snatches it.
In the dining room, Ryan sits with three plates of food.
Natalie sits.
Natalie pokes at her plate of food with her fork.
Ryan throws out his hand and smiles.
Wearing a white dressing gown, he sits on the bed in his hotel room.
He takes a wedding invitation from an envelope and studies it.
Ryan picks up his BlackBerry and reads a text from Alex.
Ryan smiles and replies.
Alex reads the reply.
Alex grins and writes back.
Ryan stares at his BlackBerry.
Alex looks at her BlackBerry.
Ryan reads it.
Natalie lines up a photograph.
Ryan holds the cardboard cut-out of Julie and Jim in front of the main terminal building at St. Louis Airport.
A row of grand glass-fronted arches.
Ryan moves closer.
Ryan looks fed up.
Natalie takes the picture.
She hands over the camera.
She walks off.
Ryan is incredulous.
Wichita.
Ryan and Natalie sit with a young man in a conference room.
He grabs the strategy packet, shoves the chair over and storms out.
A young woman.
Ryan follows Natalie outside.
She sits on a bench.
He stands facing her.
She looks disturbed.
She nods.
Concerned, Ryan frowns.
She nods stiffly.
An American Airlines jet taxis.
The silver jet with red, white and blue liveries speeds along the runway and takes off.
Rows of houses in suburbia.
Kansas City.
Ryan and Natalie walk into a large open-plan office which has already been cleared, apart from a few chairs and a couple of desks.
The receptionist looks up at Natalie and Ryan tearfully.
Natalie scans the bare office, looking slightly uncomfortable.
Another flight.
Tulsa.
In a hotel lobby, Ryan stands waiting as Natalie talks on her phone.
Ryan frowns and turns sharply to look in a mirror.
Ryan and Natalie sit in separate offices with various employees who look at their strategy packets.
Outside a hotel room with Alex, Ryan tries one of his cards in the door slot.
It doesn't work, so he tosses it away.
He tries another and opens the door.
They go in.
A jet takes off.
On the flight, Ryan hands Natalie an American Airlines Priority Access application form and a pen.
She tentatively takes them.
A wide river runs through a city.
Ryan and Natalie meet several employees.
An old guy lets out a short breath.
Ryan finds Natalie sitting in a room crammed full of office chairs.
She gets up, holding her coat.
They walk out past a car rental office.
A few, small clouds float in the clear sky above Miami, set against the deep, blue ocean.
A jet comes in to land.
Ryan gives a motivational talk.
Natalie stands at the back of the conference room, watching.
He smiles thoughtfully.
In a corridor, Ryan chats with a couple of delegates.
Natalie looks up from her cell phone, shocked.
Natalie looks over at Ryan.
They sit facing each other on the Hilton shuttle bus.
Natalie's taken aback.
Ryan grins.
They arrive at the hotel.
Natalie's face crumples.
She starts to sob.
Ryan frowns awkwardly and holds out his hands.
She falls into his arms.
Ryan sees Alex and gives her a little embarrassed wave.
She comes over.
Natalie shoots Ryan a look.
Natalie frowns.
Natalie raises a drink to her lips.
Alex smiles broadly.
Natalie looks down thoughtfully.
Ryan gives an I-told-you-so look.
Natalie looks uncertain.
They walk through the lobby.
They go to the registration desk for the Alpha-tech party.
Ryan and Alex casually pick up name badges and neck bands.
Looking a bit shifty, Natalie does the same and follows them around a corner.
The threesome clip their name badges to their neck bands and hang them around necks.
Alex reads Natalie's name badge.
At the party in the hotel ballroom, Natalie, Alex and Ryan are at the bar getting drinks.
They turn around and survey the scene.
People stand at small white tables with shiny balloons floating on ribbons above them.
Ryan, Natalie and Alex go stand around a table.
Natalie has a gulp from her drink.
She nods and smiles.
She looks at Alex.
Natalie walks onto the dance floor.
Alex grabs Ryan.
Alex and Ryan dance together.
Natalie wanders about on her own, moving to the music.
A young guy with a stubbly chin bops about and notices Natalie.
He leans to her and she smiles.
She looks at her name badge.
A DJ on the stage.
A big black guy.
Ryan and Alex have their picture taken in front of a backdrop of a giant wave.
They squat, hold out their arms and pretend they're surfing.
Natalie and Dave pose for pictures.
A bit drunk, she drapes herself all over him.
Dave holds Natalie up as they leave the photo area.
On the dance floor, Alex and Ryan face each other and shout.
Everyone points in the air and jumps around.
Later, Ryan and Alex are at the table.
He hands her a key card.
They both smile.
Natalie sings karaoke on a yacht in the harbor.
A few drunken party guests, including Dave, are there.
Alex and Ryan sit on a platform at the back of the yacht.
He dangles his feet in the clear, blue water.
They gaze at each other, then share a lingering kiss.
The power fails.
All the lights in the yacht go out.
Ryan and Alex look back towards the city lights, some distance away.
Everyone gets a ride back to land in a small pontoon boat.
They jog up onto the sandy beach.
A courtesy bus delivers the group to the hotel.
They run into the entrance barefoot.
Ryan wakes up in bed.
Alex is already dressed.
He looks at her, bleary-eyed.
She leans down and kisses him.
He beams.
Alex goes.
Ryan and Natalie have breakfast at the hotel's outdoor cafe.
They sit at one of many tables under a blue umbrella.
She stares at him.
They walk along a pier.
Natalie has the photo of Julie and Jim.
Natalie holds up the photo.
The cardboard cut-out photo blows into the water.
Ryan kneels on the edge of the wooden pier and reaches for the photo.
He falls in the water.
In his hotel room wearing a white towel and robe, Ryan dries the cut-out with a hair dryer.
Ryan drags his case through the airport.
Julie and Jim poke out of the top, looking a little wrinkled and worn.
Detroit.
The airport is shrouded in a snow storm.
Ryan and Natalie drive along an icy road.
They glance at each other awkwardly.
Ryan parks in an office car park.
He and Natalie get out.
She holds an arm full of strategy packets.
A security guard leads them through a busy, open plan office.
They go into a smaller office.
Craig's on a computer screen via a video feed.
Ryan looks at the screen and frowns.
She smiles nervously.
They prepare the packets.
A thickset bald man appears on a computer screen in front of Natalie.
Ryan sits with Natalie.
Ryan and Natalie look up.
They realize Mr. Samuels is in the next office on the other side of an opaque glass screen.
In distress, Mr. Samuels' chest heaves.
He picks up the packet.
He looks down and starts to sob.
Ryan frowns and looks between Natalie and Mr. Samuels on the screen.
The heavyset man shakes with grief.
Natalie's eyes rove.
She licks her lips.
Craig watches on his screen.
Mr. Samuels looks down.
Startled, he gets up and walks out.
Ryan and Natalie watch him wipe his hand across his face as he walks past the office therein.
Natalie looks unsettled.
She nods slightly.
Natalie looks down at a list of names.
Her eyes flit nervously.
Number one is Mr. Samuels.
She crosses it out.
In the snowy car park, Ryan talks to Craig on his cell phone.
Natalie leans on the car.
Ryan frowns as he listens.
He hangs up and turns to Natalie.
Later, in the north terminal of Detroit airport, Ryan and Natalie stand silhouetted against a large window.
Outside, the nose of a jet looms.
Standing on a moving walkway, Ryan looks at the wedding invitation.
Natalie is behind Ryan.
Her smile fades.
Natalie walks ahead.
Ryan stares thoughtfully at the wedding invitation and the RSVP slip.
He stops, turns around and heads back the way he came.
Natalie spins around and heads off.
Ryan looks out of the window of a jet as it rises into the sky.
In Las Vegas, Alex holds the cut-out of Julie and Jim in front of the pyramid-shaped Luxor Hotel.
Ryan aims the digital camera.
Alex moves the cut-out closer.
He takes a picture.
Alex stares at the cut-out.
Ryan smiles.
She looks surprised.
Alex smiles warmly.
Milwaukee.
A jet comes in to land.
Alex and Ryan walk through the airport terminal.
He pulls his black wheelie case.
She pulls a similar, neat red wheelie case.
Later, they walk into the Chalet Suites, a Swiss lodge- themed hotel.
They join a short queue of people checking in.
Ryan notices a second counter with no queue.
As Ryan opens a hotel room door, his sister Kara walks up holding a basket of washing.
Alex and Ryan walk into their gaudily furnished room.
Ryan picks up a photocopied booklet.
There's a picture of Julie and Jim on the front.
Julie hugs Ryan.
Jim comes over.
There's a large map of the U.S. on the wall.
Pinned to it are several photos of the cut-out of Julie and Jim in front of famous landmarks.
Ryan steps back and looks at the map, which is covered in photographs.
He smiles thoughtfully and goes back to join Alex, Julie and Jim.
He points at the map.
At the bar.
Alex goes back in.
Ryan waits outside with Julie and Kara.
They smile.
Julie nods and looks down sadly.
A box of flower arrangements.
Kara looks at Julie.
Ryan drives up to his old school.
He and Alex get out of the car.
He looks at the long, low building.
They tramp across some snow and walk up to the entrance.
Ryan tries the door.
It's locked.
He peers inside.
It's dark.
He turns to Alex resignedly.
She grins.
She goes to a window.
Alex undoes a catch with a credit card and pulls the window open.
He grabs her foot and heaves her up.
They both clamber into a classroom.
They look at old newspaper photos of the basketball team.
A picture in a trophy case.
Outside by a loading bay.
They sit on the stairs and kiss.
In the gym, they watch the basketball team practice.
Ryan and Alex grin at each other.
Kara's calling.
Alex drops Ryan off by the church.
Ryan runs up to the church entrance, opens the door and runs up some stairs.
He walks into the church and finds Julie sitting with her bridesmaids, crying.
Julie is in white.
The bridesmaids wear cerise.
They see Ryan.
Kara goes over to him.
He looks at Julie, who wipes tears from her eyes.
Ryan and Kara go to the Sunday School room.
Ryan peers through a window in the door.
Wearing suit trousers, white shirt and a maroon waistcoat, Jim sits reading a children's book.
Ryan turns to Kara.
She raises her eyebrows, imploring him to go in.
Jim looks up from the book.
Ryan shuts the door.
Ryan's eyes rove.
Ryan sits.
Ryan shrugs.
Jim nods.
Jim raises his eyebrows.
Ryan smiles.
Watching, Kara smiles.
She ushers Jim into the room, where Julie sits being consoled by the other bridesmaids.
Jim walks over to Julie, kneels down and takes her hands in his.
She smiles and nods.
They hug each other.
Watching from the doorway, Kara glances at Ryan.
An usher hands guests the order of service.
They take their seats in the church.
In the vestry, Alex helps Ryan get into his suit.
Ryan and Alex sit watching as flower girls walk down the aisle.
Jim stands waiting with the bridesmaids.
Everyone looks around as Julie walks down the aisle, arm-in -arm with Jim's uncle.
Julie and Jim walk up to the priest, who conducts the ceremony.
Everyone stands watching as Jim slips the wedding ring onto Julie's finger.
She beams.
Ryan sits with Alex's hand in his.
Julie and Jim light candles.
He lifts her veil.
They kiss.
Everyone applauds.
Julie and Jim walk up the aisle, arm-in-arm.
She waves her bouquet.
Everyone lines up outside for photographs.
At the reception, Julie and Jim dance together.
Guests wave tiny little wedding bells.
Alex and Ryan smile and laugh together.
Julie and Ryan dance cheek-to-cheek.
The dance floor fills.
Alex and Ryan dance together.
He pulls a goofy face and falls back into her arms.
They play pat-a-cake.
Ryan looks serious and waggles his arms.
Alex shimmies from side to side.
Julie tosses her bouquet over her shoulder.
One of the bridesmaids catches it.
Alex and Ryan slow dance together.
As the guests start to leave, Alex and Ryan sit together.
He grabs a bouquet of flowers and hands it to her.
She cracks up.
Ryan helps Alex on with her jacket.
They leave.
In the hotel lift, Alex and Ryan kiss.
Next day, at the airport.
Holding their wheelie cases, they face each other smiling.
Alex's smile drops for a moment.
She walks off.
Ryan watches her head to her Departure gate.
Omaha.
Ryan walks along the hall and lets himself into his apartment.
Ryan stops for a moment and looks at the sparse white room.
He opens the door to a closet and hangs up some shirts.
In the bathroom, he puts his toothbrush in a glass.
With Natalie, Ryan walks along a line a cubicles where workers talk to people on video links.
Ryan is distracted.
Sitting in front of a computer screen, Ryan puts on a headset.
In a meeting with Craig and other employees, Ryan looks at the schedule for the Gold Quest Conference on his laptop.
At home, he takes a couple of whiskey miniatures from his fridge.
He stands looking out of a window with a drink in his hand.
A large video screen outside a Las Vegas hotel displays a caption.
Ryan waits in the wings of a packed conference hall.
Smartly suited, Ryan puts his backpack on a table and steps up to a lectern.
Computer-generated backpacks revolve on the screens behind him.
Ryan looks out across the room full of seated delegates.
Lost in his thoughts, he hangs his head then shakes it slightly.
Ryan looks up and smiles to himself.
He taps his thumb on the lectern.
He walks off past a backstage guy.
Ryan leaves the building.
He runs through the airport, dragging his case with one hand, with a boarding pass flapping in the other.
He reaches a Departure gate, gets the pass checked and goes through.
On a jet, Ryan gazes out of the window.
The nighttime lights of Chicago.
In a flurry of snow, Ryan picks up a Hertz rental car.
Ryan signs.
Ryan gets in and drives away.
Ryan drives along slush-covered roads, glancing at a piece of paper in his hand and scanning the streets.
He pulls up.
Leaving the lights on, Ryan gets out of the car, jogs along a pavement and walks up to a large suburban town house.
He rings the doorbell.
Ryan steps back, puts his hands in the pockets of his long black coat and tries to act casual.
Alex opens the door.
Ryan's cheeky smile quickly fades when he sees two young boys run up the stairs behind Alex.
Mortified, Alex stares at Ryan.
He slowly backs away.
She shuts the door.
Ryan turns and goes.
In a hotel room, he sits staring out of the window into the night.
He sips a large whiskey.
Ryan's solitary figure is framed by one of the row of tall windows in a nondescript hotel block.
Ryan arrives at the airport.
He drags his case through the busy terminal building.
He swipes his card at the self-service check-in and takes the shuttle train to his gate.
He perches on the edge of a seat, looking morose.
Alex calls him from her car.
Ryan looks tearful.
Tears well up in Ryan's eyes.
Ryan opens his mouth as if he's about to speak, but instead he shuts his eyes and hangs up.
He looks deeply hurt.
On his flight, Ryan sits staring into space.
A stewardess hands Ryan a glass of champagne.
The uniformed captain with a craggy face and a mustache sits beside Ryan, who frowns awkwardly.
Ryan takes it.
Ryan stares at the shiny silver card.
Ryan stares off thoughtfully.
They both smile.
Ryan turns away and looks down.
In his office at CTC, Ryan toys with the lifetime Executive Platinum card.
He picks up the phone and dials the number on the back of the card.
He frowns.
Ryan looks down.
Ryan looks Craig in the eye.
At an airport, she rides a moving walkway.
Craig smiles confidently.
Craig goes.
Ryan looks down, a troubled frown etched across his brow.
San Francisco, set against the azure ocean.
In an office, a manager looks at Natalie's resume.
She smiles.
She holds her smile.
Her smile fades.
He picks up a letter and holds it up.
It's on CTC notepaper.
Ryan writes.
Natalie smiles, slightly embarrassed.
The manager holds out his hand.
Natalie stands sharply, shakes it and smiles.
Ryan's small, leased apartment.
In offices, former employees are interviewed.
A pair of doors slides open and Ryan walks into the airport terminal.
Smartly suited and pulling his wheelie case along behind him, he walks up to the Arrival/Departure board.
As people come and go, Ryan stands staring at the various destinations on the boards.
He releases his grip on the handle of his suitcase.
Sadness is etched across his face.
A thick blanket of fluffy clouds slowly passes.
A bright white light shines in front of a cloudy sky.
The light is held aloft by a statuesque woman wearing a long white robe with a blue sash draped around her.
Silver metallic letters on a black background.
Framed within a V shape, a city skyline.
A motorcade sweeps through the city streets, with motorcycles in the background.
Men in suits climb stairs.
The motorcade moves past a tall stone bell tower towards the flashing lights of a parked police car.
A GNN TV camera is fixed on the vehicles.
The convoy comes to a halt.
Cameras flash.
The President, a tall man with a receding hairline, emerges.
He and his guards move away from the car.
One of the Secret Service agents.
Barnes, a man in his with a furrowed brow, glances all around, scanning rooftops and the protesters as he walks ahead of the President.
On a preview monitor, the GNN gallery crew watch footage of an assassination attempt on President Ashton.
Barnes takes the bullets for the President.
The President's hustled to safety.
The President recoils.
A bomb goes off in the plaza.
Smoke erupts from the explosion and blanks out the TV cameras.
The plaza is covered in its dense blanket.
The gallery is stunned.
As the smoke clears, the director catches sight of Angie lying on the ground.
Angie has blood on her forehead and chest as she lies amongst the rubble.
The picture constantly breaks up.
The director and her assistant fight back tears.
The director, Rex Brooks, gets to her feet and switches off the feed.
Her face haggard and weary, she sits back down by her younger, weeping PA.
The events rewind.
Pre-explosion.
Angie reporting.
The President at the lectern.
The motorcade en route to the plaza.
Agent Barnes, his torso bare, turns from his window.
He nods to his colleague Ken Taylor, then turns back to gaze out of the window as he puts on a shirt.
Barnes has a scar on his back.
Barnes strolls across the room and sits down on his bed.
He has his tie in his hand as he fastens his shirt.
He reaches for a pill bottle.
Popping the lid, he tips the bottle.
Barnes puts his hand to his grimacing face.
Footage of the previous year's assassination attempt.
In the black and white footage, Barnes falls to the ground.
In the hotel room, Barnes places the pill back in the bottle which he places on the bedside cabinet.
Barnes lifts his gun from the cabinet and checks its magazine.
In a hotel corridor, Barnes puts on his jacket as he walks in front of a large window against which he is silhouetted.
He strides to the elevator and presses the Call button.
He presses his earpiece and enters the elevator.
As he exits, he hears two other colleagues, Holden and Matthews, with Taylor.
Barnes strides past them.
Taylor follows him to a car.
They all move to cars as President Ashton emerges from the elevator.
The President gets into the car by which Barnes and Taylor are standing.
They follow him in.
The convoy, headed by the two motorcycles, sets off from the underground garage.
Behind the motorcycles is a police car, then two four-by- fours with their tailgates open.
Then two stretch limos with more vehicles bringing up the rear.
Armed police line the route.
Armed men in uniform are on rooftops and behind barred gates.
In the Presidential limo, Taylor grins.
Protesters grow rowdy as the motorcade passey them.
The convoy stops by a statue of Pizarro at Spain.
The Secret Service agents spill out.
His car door is opened.
Taylor and Barnes climb up.
Barnes scowls as he scans the press photographers.
His narrow face is permanently grim as he turns from the cameras and walks around the car to join Taylor and the President.
Taylor and Barnes lead the way.
The President is behind them.
Holden and Matthews bring up the rear.
Taylor glances across at Barnes as the group makes their way to the plaza.
They emerge through a arch way of the crowded plaza.
The President strides towards a child in its mother's arms.
He shakes the baby's hand.
He greets the flag-waving crowd, grasping hands as he passes.
Barnes spots a man wearing dark glasses slip his hand into an inside pocket.
The man's camera drops to the ground.
The presidential party continues, Holden replacing Barnes at the front.
Barnes now behind the President.
Two soldiers on the roof.
President Ashton climbs red-carpeted steps onto a podium placed in the middle of the plaza, which is filled with a flag- waving, cheering crowd free from protesters.
The balding man now walks to a lectern.
Barnes and Taylor stride across the podium and stand facing out towards the sea of yellow and red flags.
Standing amongst the crowd is a chunky man in a blue and white checked shirt.
He holds a video camera.
Barnes notices a curtain twitch on an upper floor.
Taylor follows Barnes' gaze.
Barnes goes to speak into a mic in his cuff, but stops.
Barnes' eyes are fixed on the window and the curtain.
He speaks into his mic.
Taylor and Barnes exchange a look.
Barnes sees the man in the checked shirt pointing his camera at the upper floors behind him to where Barnes saw the fluttering curtain.
The man turns back around checking his camera.
He looks down from the window at Barnes and Taylor.
The Mayor waves to the crowd, then steps back from the lectern to welcome President Ashton with a handshake.
Barnes sees an open window.
A muzzle flash illuminates the window, and the President reels back before falling.
Taylor yells to a stunned Barnes.
Barnes looks back up.
A bearded young man dashes to the podium.
Barnes tackles him.
Barnes stares down at the recumbent President.
Taylor helps carry the President away.
The President is loaded into an ambulance.
The bearded young man.
They lead him off.
An exasperated look on his face, Holden turns away.
They loop up on hearing the distant explosion.
Barnes sees the man in the checked shirt.
He runs to him and grabs his camera.
Barnes points.
They rewind the camera in vision.
Both men stare at the LCD screen.
Flames and black smoke rise into the air.
The smoke clears.
Barnes is lying on the ground.
He regains consciousness.
There is a scratch on his grubby face.
Barnes hauls himself to his knees.
Barnes struggles to get to his feet.
There are small fires all around.
A man throws a blanket over a women whose clothes are in flames.
Barnes takes in the number of people lying injured.
Barnes recalls the muzzle flashes in the window.
Across the plaza, Matthews, clutching a chest wound, tries to sit up.
Barnes runs across to him, past the mess of twisted metal crowd control barriers.
Barnes bends down.
Holden staggers over.
Matthews falls still.
Holden shakes his head.
Barnes stares at his fallen colleague.
Holden looks up to see the Spanish bearded cop with a gun.
Holden chases after the bearded man who has holstered his gun.
Barnes looks up as a GNN cameraman runs past.
Barnes reads the GNN logo and leaps to his feet.
He runs to the GNN outside broadcast van and enters the gallery.
Barnes stares at the bank of monitors.
The director watches him.
Barnes sees a still frame of him being shot.
Barnes searches for the cell phone.
Rex watches as Barnes keys in numbers on his cell phone.
He speaks into his cuff mike.
He dials a number.
The PA whispers into her cellphone.
Barnes' eyes are fixed on the monitor.
Karen glances around and manually rewinds the tape control.
Barnes looks intently at the screen, his eyes unblinking.
Barnes turns and runs out off the van.
The events rewind.
Barnes turning to Mathews.
The explosion, the shooting
Taylor at Barnes' hotel door.
The time on the digital clock moves to midday.
The bearded man, Enrique, a handsome man in his wearing a light open shirt over a dark tee shirt and with a bag over his shoulder, marches past the protestors on his way to the plaza.
He approaches a security checkpoint and a female officer.
She calls next.
Enrique sees a couple whispering.
Enrique keeps his eyes on the young couple.
As he approaches them, the short cropped-haired man walks away.
He and Enrique exchange looks as the latter strides up the pretty long haired woman, Veronica.
He grabs her hair and pushes her against a pillar.
She holds his head.
As she hugs him, he hands her over her bag.
Enrique reluctantly lets go of her hand.
He moves away from her but stops to glance back.
She blows him a kiss.
He turns and walks to security barrier, where he shows his ID.
Enrique is allowed through.
He marches through the podium as the Mayor shakes the President's hand.
The Mayor goes to the lectern.
The Spanish flags are waved.
Enrique rubs his palms together.
He reflects on Veronica's assignation.
The young man leaves her.
Enrique looks up as the Mayor finishes his introduction.
President Ashton steps forward and raises his arms wide at his sides.
The President staggers back and falls.
Enrique jumps up onto the podium and runs across it, only to be tackled by Barnes.
Matthews and Holden lead Enrique away.
The man in the checked shirt videos it.
Enrique spots Veronica striding through the crowd.
He watches her keenly.
She catches sight of him and holds his gaze.
His eyes moved down from her face, holding the bag he brought through security for her.
She tosses it under the podium.
An agent leads Enrique away.
Enrique elbows him in the face and he takes the agents gun.
Smoke fills the plaza.
Enrique sits up.
As he does so, Holden, leaning beside the fallen Mathews alongside Barnes, glances across and sees him.
Enrique holsters the agent's gun.
Holden gives chase.
Enrique rounds a corner, Holden and another agent in pursuit.
Holden shoots in the air.
Enrique rushes out into the street.
He darts into the road as an ambulance approaches.
Veronica sits in the passenger seat.
He stands gooping and is hit by a car.
He gets to his feet, and he runs.
Holden and the second agent, Parsons, chase Enrique into an arcade.
He shoves people out of his way.
Enrique sprints upstairs and dashes into an apartment building.
Residents on the staircase delay the secret service agents.
Enrique runs onto a balcony and leaps from it into a courtyard.
Holden and Parsons reach the balcony railing.
They race along the balcony.
Enrique dashes away from the apartment building and sprints along the street.
He looks behind constantly.
Dodging traffic, he crosses the road until he is hit by another car.
He runs across a road to an underpass carrying highway traffic.
Enrique takes the gun from his holster and checks the magazine.
He cocks the gun.
His arms, face and hair are wet with sweat.
Enrique steps out from behind a pillar and looks along the road.
He glares.
The story rewinds.
Enrique cocking the gun.
Being hit by the first car.
Seeing Veronica in the ambulance.
Holden aiming his gun at him.
The explosion.
Being tackled by Barnes and the man Veronica was with.
The clock reaches twelve noon.
The seething crowd in the enclosed Plaza Mayor, a helicopter overhead.
The man in the checked shirt, Howard Lewis, is videoing.
He records the upper windows and one of the many arches in the plaza.
There are kid shouting hello from some of the balconies.
Howard walks away from the kids and resumes videoing.
The timer on his LCD screen reads nearly two hours and two minutes.
He strolls deeper into the crowd, his camera focused above their heads.
He pans his camera around, and on the LCD screen he sees Veronica by the pillar with the young man Enrique saw her with.
He zooms in as she places something in his hand and clutches his palm.
As their heads move closer, Howard lowers his gaze and stops filming.
He films some more.
Then, a short man approaches him.
A little girl bumps Howard with her ice cream.
Sam leaves.
The little girl sobs.
Howard bends down.
He asks her her name.
Anna is dragged off by her mother.
The little girl glances back.
Alerted by the applause, Howard goes in to record mode.
President Ashton steps up onto the podium and shakes the Mayor's hand.
Howard moves forward as the Mayor walks to the lectern.
His eyes fixed on the LCD screen, Howard grins.
Howard's camera pans to take in Barnes looking upward and speaking into his cuff mic.
Howard wheels around and focuses on the moving curtain.
He looks up from the screen and sees a shadow behind the curtain.
Howard keeps his camera focused on the shadowy figure, then turns as the President is shot.
Howard keeps the tape running as Holden and Matthews race to the President.
The crowds peel back from the podium.
Howard spins back to the now open window, then to the podium as Enrique leaps onto it.
The video is Barnes tackling Enrique.
Despite the chaos around them, Howard continues to videotape the events in front of him.
Howard tapes Veronica tossing her bag under the podium and fleeing.
The crowds grow more restless as they hear the distant explosion.
Anna has lost hold of her mother's hand.
Panicking people flee and stand on the ones who are stumbled.
Howard uses his cell phone.
Howard zooms back in vision.
Barnes watches keenly.
Barnes watches Veronica throw her bag under the podium.
Barnes and Howard are thrown off their feet by the force of the explosion.
Flames soar up from the podium.
Black smoke filled the plaza.
As the smoke subsides, Howard slowly sits up and rubs the back of his neck.
The once heighered flags hanging limp and torn.
Howard checks his hand for blood, then takes in the scene of devastation in front of him.
He stretches out for his camera by his side, then sees Barnes with the injured Matthews.
Howard pushes himself up onto his feet and looks around.
He sees little Anna standing alone.
She nods OK.
He picks her up in his arms and runs out of the plaza with her.
Outside, he hears Holden who's chasing Enrique.
Anna nods.
He sees Enrique making his escape.
Holden and Parsons are in pursuit of Enrique.
Howard still carrying Anna runs after them.
He stops in front of a policewoman.
Enrique keeps running.
Holden and Parsons race after Enrique on the street outside the plaza.
Howard heads after them, filming as he goes.
Enrique dashes into a gated stone building.
Holden and Parsons sprint after him.
Howard charges through the tall gate where he comes to a halt inside a large church.
The agents pursue Enrique out into the street.
Howard is hot on their tail.
Anna looks frantically for her mother.
She mistakenly chases a different olive skin woman.
Howard videotapes a red sedan plowing into Enrique.
Enrique staggers to his feet and runs.
Parsons and Holden dart after him across the busy road.
Howard dashes through the panicking crowd in hot pursuit.
They race under colored canopies on a market street.
Heavyset Howard stops to catch his breath.
He gets Holden and Parsons on tape as they disappear around a corner.
His eyes roam frantically and he darts down a parallel street.
Beating down the side street as he runs, Howard sees Enrique make a B-line for a busy highway.
Howard beams incredulously and gives chase with the camcorder held out in front of him.
Enrique's pistol is holstered in his belt beside his police badge.
A white sedan brakes sharply as he bounds out into the road.
Howard stops by the roadside.
He spots a pedestrian bridge over the highway.
Enrique bolts out into oncoming traffic.
Howard scampers up steel steps and hot foots it along the bridge.
He stops and stares out some chain link mesh to see Enrique slow to a stop at an underpass.
Howard cranes the camera on him.
He sees Enrique's badge.
A squad car drives up in front of Enrique, and a policeman approaches him.
Holden and Parson open fire from across the highway.
Howard flees, and then zooms the camera back on Enrique.
The officer stoops over Enrique's body and gently lifts his head.
He sees Anna step out onto the highway.
A white car swerves to avoid her.
An ambulance motors over the crest of the hill bridge.
Howard runs along the highway towards Anna.
He freezes in the middle of the road as the speeding ambulance hurdles towards her.
Howard makes a mad dash for her.
The picture freezes and the events run in reverse.
Enrique bounces from the windscreen of a red sedan.
Howard scoops Anna in his arms.
The firey explosion shrinks into nothing, blackness.
Marksmen watch from the rooftops of tall buildings as the President's motorcade processes towards the plaza.
President Ashton's on a car phone.
Cavic and another agent sit opposite him.
The motorcade halts in the shadows beneath a bridge.
Another dark suited man climbs into the President's car.
He lowers the phone.
The man, Ted Heinkin, hangs it up and narrows his eyes.
Two flags are removed from the bonnet of the President's limousine.
He puts a document in a folder and slams it shut.
Ashton stares gravely out of the window.
A seething crowd fills the Plaza Mayor.
The double's motorcade passes beneath the watchful snipers.
The crowd of protesters wave placards at the roadside.
The President's limo drives into the hotel's underground car park.
Government agents stand watch outside the glass wall of the Hotel Vesta.
The President gets out of his limo in a bright empty parking lot dotted with armed agents.
Heinkin and silver-haired Phil McCullough follow Ashton into an elevator.
A besuited agent runs a swipe card through a machine and talks into a radio.
An inflatable skull and two skeleton hands are waved by protesters outside the Plaza Mayor.
Matthews and Holden cross to the limousine.
Matthews opens the door for the Ashton double.
In the elevator, Ashton reads through a folder of large photographs.
A guilty McCullough looks awkward.
He looks away.
Ashton stares at McCullough, then steps out of the elevator.
Heinkin raises an eyebrow.
They follow Ashton down a corridor.
At the plaza, the crowd waves Spanish flags as the Secret Service agents escort Ashton's double to the podium.
In his hotel room, Ashton opens the curtains and gazes out of the window of the Plaza Mayor.
The Secret Service agents take positions around the President on the red-carpeted podium.
De Soto stands at the lectern.
Ashton sees his double on TV.
Ashton's double is shot.
McCullough grabs the phone.
Barnes floors Enrique.
Ashton watches live footage of Barnes pinning Enrique down.
Ashton is transfixed.
Ashton turns.
McCullough proffers the phone.
Ashton stares at them soberly.
A bomb explodes on the ground floor of the hotel.
Ashton goes to the window.
Ashton peers down at strewn bodies and flaming debris.
McCullough holds out the phone and shoots Ashton a solemn look.
A blast blows the door open and throws them to the floor.
A man in a balaclava enters holding a pistol.
He dispatches Heinkin, McCullough and Cavic.
He trains the pistol on the President, who cowers in a corner.
A bright, white flash.
Events run in reverse order.
Gunshots are fired.
Black smoke rises from the bomb blast.
The president's double is shot.
Ashton sits safely in his limousine.
Anna receives an ice cream cone.
Anna nods.
Seated, Sam smiles at Anna.
Veronica talks with a handsome, heavy-featured man, Javier.
She holds up a bracelet.
Javier glares at her and flexes his jaw.
Raven-haired Veronica produces a cell phone and plays him a video of a bound and gagged man in his He grabs her wrist.
He takes the bracelet.
He grabs her head and glowers, inches from her face.
He lets go and strides off.
Javier's eyes meet with Enrique's as they pass each other.
Javier walks passed curly-haired Marie and pony-tailed Anna.
Seated at his table in the cafe, Sam toggles through screens on his PDA phone.
He uses a touch screen wand to initiate a phone call and glances at the television.
A bellboy answers a phone in the hotel reception.
Felipe the bellboy hangs up the phone.
The motorcade enters the underground parking lot.
Javier answers his mobile.
Javier takes the phone from his ear, then gasps as he approaches the hotel.
Sam punches buttons on his phone and talks into the mic of his hands-free kit.
On TV, Ashton's double approaches the podium.
He pushes a button.
A police constable scans Javier with a metal detector outside the Hotel Vesta.
He points at Javier's pocket, and Javier takes out a cell phone.
Felipe opens the door for a woman entering the hotel.
Javier approaches.
Then shakes Javier's hand, placing a small envelope into it.
Javier enters the lobby, which is filled with Secret Service agents.
Javier talks into his cell phone as he passes the suited agents.
Javier lowers his phone and calls an elevator.
He turns the credit card sized envelope in his hands.
Sam steps out of the cafe onto the sunny street, the wire from his hands-free kit trailing down his white T-shirt to the phone in his hand.
The huge enclosed square of the plaza is surrounded by terra cotta colored buildings.
Inside, Sam, holding a small Spanish flag, strolls to the back of the crowd.
Spotting Howard with his camera, Sam narrows his eyes.
He furrows his brow pensively, then makes his way over to Howard.
Javier stands in the elevator.
He stares at a CCTV camera.
He reaches the fourth floor and strolls down a corridor, where he slots a swipe card into a machine on a hotel room door, unlocking it.
Inside, he removes a hold-all from a fridge and takes a pistol from it.
He loads the pistol and puts an earpiece in.
In the plaza, Sam sees Veronica take the bag from Enrique.
Sam glances up at a marksman.
Howard talks with Anna.
Sam watches Enrique depart.
Sam disappears into the crowd.
Wearing a backpack, Javier screws a silencer onto his pistol as he climbs a flight of steps in the hotel.
He uses a touchscreen PDA to activate the fan in the window overlooking the plaza.
The curtain flutters.
Barnes sees it.
Sam turns his back and walks away.
Javier stalks through the hotel corridors with his pistol drawn.
He shoots a hotel maid.
A gun falls from her hand.
He goes to use the key card at a room door.
He pushes gently on his ear piece.
In the crowd, Sam fiddles with his phone as he walks.
A receiver bleeps in a high window, and a rifle rotates on a motorized tripod.
The view from the sight is relayed to Sam's phone.
Sam uses the wand to train the rifle on Ashton's double.
He taps the screen as the double steps up to the podium with his arm outstretched.
The gun fires, shooting Ashton's double.
The crowd disperses.
Taylor squats over Ashton's double.
Javier shoots uniformed security guards in the hotel's CCTV control room.
He unplugs a laptop and makes a call on his cell phone.
Sam enters the digits into his phone.
Javier slips a cartridge into the pistol and removes his beige jacket.
Barnes speaks into his radio.
Felipe stands at his open locker.
He caresses a family photograph from the inside of the locker door, then shuts it.
Sam approaches a parked ambulance.
Felipe stares at himself in a mirror.
He has dynamite strapped around his waist.
He closes his bellboy's jacket over it and anxiously makes his way into a hotel corridor.
Sam loads a pistol and proffers it to Veronica, who is dressing herself in a nurse's uniform.
She takes it.
Javier's brother, the man from Veronica's phone, sits against a white pillow with gaffer tape over his mouth.
Veronica aims the pistol at him.
Sam shoots him, startling Veronica.
Javier runs up a stairwell in the hotel, then checks his watch.
Felipe crosses the busy hotel lobby.
In a garage, Sam taps the screen of his cell phone with a stylus.
Perspiring profusely, Felipe glowers intensely, then clicks a red trigger with his thumb.
The hotel lobby explodes.
In the stairwell, Javier checks his watch.
The ambulance hits the streets with Sam on its radio.
A Secret Service agent heads downstairs.
Javier shoots him.
Javier watches more agents pass beneath him in the stairwell, then heads downstairs.
Sam drives the ambulance through the streets at breakneck speed.
Javier eases a door open on level seven.
Javier dons a ski mask, then lurches through the doorway and stabs the agent in the back.
Another agent rounds the corner.
Javier attacks.
Javier kills the agent, then draws his gun.
The ambulance careens through a junction, causing two cars to crash.
Javier uses a mirror to spot two agents outside the President's room, then opens fire.
He shoots a third agent.
Javier sets charges which blow the door to the President's room.
Then ducks inside and guns down Cavic, McCullough and Heinkin.
Javier points his gun at Ashton.
The ambulance arrives at the bombed hotel.
Veronica and Sam climb out of the ambulance.
Sam taps his cell phone screen.
The agent leads Sam away.
They kneel by a casualty.
Barnes enters the GNN OB truck and flashes his ID.
Veronica enters the elevator with a gurney and presses the button for level seven.
Barnes makes a second call on his cell phone.
Barnes spots Taylor on the monitor dressed as a cop.
A flashback to Taylor leaving Barnes and Howard.
Taylor runs off with a smirk, then enters the annex behind two agents as the bomb goes off outside.
Taylor guns down both agents, then sheds his jacket and dismantles the remote-controlled rifle.
Taylor changes into a Spanish policeman's outfit and heads down an outside staircase with the packed up rifle.
As Taylor leaves, Barnes spots him on the monitor.
Barnes glares at the monitor, then leaps into action, rushing out of the GNN truck.
Taylor puts his cell phone into the front seat of the ambulance driven by Sam and Veronica, and gets into a Spanish police car.
As Barnes rounds a corner, he heads down a quiet street.
Barnes sees Taylor speed off and gives chase on foot through a narrow pedestrian street, then onto the main road.
Barnes rushes into oncoming traffic.
Barnes speeds off in a blue hatchback, then gets on his cell phone.
Barnes slides around the corner.
In the hotel, Javier forces Ashton towards the elevator on the seventh floor at gunpoint.
Veronica arrives in the elevator and chloroforms Ashton.
They put the unconscious President on the gurney and enter the elevator, where Veronica fits an oxygen mask onto Ashton's face.
Javier points a gun at the President's head.
Sam spots the elevator stuck on the seventh floor.
Sweaty, Javier glares at Veronica then lowers the gun.
As Veronica relaxes, Javier raises it.
Veronica shakes her head.
Javier relents and leaves Veronica in the elevator, then touches his stomach in the corridor.
His palm comes away bloody.
On the road.
Javier heads down the stairwell in the hotel dressed in a Spanish policeman's uniform.
Outside, Sam spots Veronica leaving the elevator with the covered gurney and rushes to help.
Sam wheels the gurney while Veronica tends the drip.
The President is covered by a blue blanket.
Javier leaves the annex.
On the street, Javier checks his watch.
Sam and Veronica wheel the President's gurney over to the ambulance.
Luis runs up to them.
He climbs in and Sam shuts the door.
The ambulance pulls away from the chaos outside the hotel.
In the speeding hatchback, Barnes answers his cell phone.
He shifts gear and moves through traffic in the narrow street.
On a different street, Sam weaves through traffic in the ambulance.
Inside, Ashton, lying under the blanket, opens his eyes.
Ashton lowers a sidebar.
As the ambulance rounds a corner, he falls to the floor.
Taylor speeds along in a Spanish police car.
Veronica smiles at Sam in the driver's seat.
Then Enrique runs across the road in front of them and exchanges a stunned glance with Veronica.
Sam looks shiftily across at Veronica.
Veronica shoots Luis point blank as Ashton cowers on the floor by the gurney, then reaches out for the drip support.
Ashton disconnects the metal bar and holds it against his chest.
Javier approaches a couple getting into their car and pulls his gun.
The middle-aged man offers his keys nervously as Taylor drives down the street towards Javier, and stops as Javier slaps the bonnet off the Spanish police car.
Barnes breaks suddenly and backs up.
He spots Javier climbing into Taylor's police car.
Barnes sets off in pursuit of Taylor and Javier.
Barnes wears a focused expression as he drifts around the corner and weaves through traffic right behind them.
Barnes pulls out his cell phone.
Taxi plows into the side of Barnes's hatchback.
His small blue car is sent into a spin along the road behind Taylor.
Barnes rights the vehicle with a determined frown.
Taylor looks back.
Barnes throws his car into gear and accelerates after Taylor, who power-slides around a corner, Barnes in hot pursuit.
Taylor gets on the radio.
Sam glances anxiously across Veronica who holds onto her seat belt.
Barnes dodges traffic as he races past pavements full of panicking pedestrians.
Javier fidgets anxiously in the police car's passenger seat.
Policemen frantically direct scared members of the public away from the chase as both cars head through a junction.
The chase mounts a pedestrian area and crashes down a wide stone staircase, then rejoins the main road.
Other cars desperately veer to the side as Taylor powers onward.
Barnes swerves to avoid a collision and mounts the pavement.
He wrestles with his steering wheel as Javier looks back and sees Barnes lose a little bit of ground.
The chase continues.
A fire engine bounds towards Taylor.
The fire engine holds.
Both Taylor and Barnes brake on the turn.
They accelerate along parallel lines.
Barnes drives through a pedestrian colonnade.
Barnes spots two cars in the way and brakes.
Barnes is thrown around as the hatchback breaks through the gap.
Taylor and Javier look behind them as they join a busy road.
The chase weaves through a slow traffic.
Javier pulls his gun.
Taylor clips another driver, who hits a parked car.
Barnes powers through the flipping vehicles, as Taylor looks back anxiously over his shoulder.
Javier lowers his gun.
He leans out of the window and fires.
Two bullet holes appear in Barnes' windscreen, and Javier sits back into the police car.
Taylor looks in his rear view mirror and steers.
Then handbrake turns the police car round a corner and into the path of a truck which loses control.
As Barnes rounds the corner, the truck smashes into the hatchback.
Pedestrians scatter as Barnes is sandwiched between the truck and the near by wall.
Taylor smirks.
As they proceed along the underpass in the shadow of an elevated road, Enrique steps from behind a pillar.
Taylor stops the car and Javier gets out.
Javier shoots the armed Enrique, then points his gun at Enrique's face.
Howard films nearby, then spots Anna crossing the road.
Barnes pushes the windscreen out of the wrecked hatchback and climbs out onto the road.
The truck driver holds his arms out.
Barnes pulls his gun and heads for the underpass.
Veins stand out on Javier's forehead as he presses the gun up to Enrique forehead.
Barnes takes aim some way back.
Javier spins and opens fire.
Barnes fires back as Taylor starts the police car.
They both land shoulder hits, and Javier grabs the door of Taylor's car.
Taylor pulls a gun and shoots Javier point blank as he accelerates.
Barnes gives chase on foot as Enrique dies by the roadside.
A shot from Barnes shatters the back windscreen and hits Taylor in the shoulder.
Taylor looks dazed and loses control of the car.
Then veers onto the curb and crashes into a concrete ramp which smashes through the windscreen.
Javier lies dead on the road with his face resting against his right arm.
Barnes approaches the police car with his handgun held out in front of him.
He breathes heavily as he opens the driver's door.
He drags the wounded Taylor.
Taylor slips down the car.
Taylor falls to the ground.
In the speeding ambulance, Ashton hauls himself up with a firm grip on the metal bar he took off the gurney.
Ashton strikes the back of Veronica's head.
Anna wanders into the road as the ambulance approaches.
Veronica spots Anna right in the ambulance's path.
Howard sprints toward her as Sam grimaces with the effort of turning the wheel to avoid the little girl, whose mother screams at the side of the road.
Time seems to slow down as Barnes spots the tragedy about to happen.
The ambulance spins at a right angle and flips onto its side.
Anna stands frozen as the ambulance crashes and careens towards her on its side.
Howard dives in and grabs Anna, then hits the deck as vehicles pile up behind them.
Barnes rushes over as cars continue to crash.
Howard sits up catching Anna.
Marie spots them.
Barnes rushes to the overturned ambulance.
He spots a handgun by Veronica's bloodied corpse.
Barnes reloads his own weapon with a fresh clip.
Smoke rises into the air around the wrecked vehicle as Barnes makes his way to the back doors.
He opens the door slightly and points his gun through the narrow gap.
He spots President Ashton lying face down.
Barnes lets the door drop as Ashton gingerly moves his arm.
A badly injured Sam pulls his gun and aims.
Barnes shoots Sam in the stomach.
Ashton stares at Sam's corpse with wide eyes as Barnes grips Ashton's arm.
Ashton turns over and looks up.
Ashton nods, and Barnes helps to drag him into a sitting position.
Ashton looks over at Sam's dead body.
Barnes puts his cell phone to his ear and touches his forehead anxiously, then looks at his hand which appears steady.
Outside, Marie holds Anna and touches Howard.
Howard reaches out and waves as Marie heads off holding Anna, who waves back.
Howard wears a dazed expression as he answers his ringing cell phone.
Howard smiles incredulously.
Agents lead Ashton, on a gurney, towards a helicopter.
Walking alongside, Barnes looks down.
The helicopter rises off the road as a crowd mills around the upturned ambulance at the underpass.
An orange train passes along the raised track between the elevated roads.
The helicopter rotates smoothly in the air, then flies away.
A lady's hand at work on a delicate piece of floral embroidery.
Darcy emerges from the parsonage, lips drawn tight, and pulls on his dark leather gloves.
Inside, Lizzie begins to pace around the drawing room.
Tears spring into her eyes.
Darcy hurries into a room upstairs and stands in the middle of the room, looking deeply troubled.
He dashes over to a bureau and pulls out a sheet of paper.
Picking up a pen, he dips it into an ink pot, then sets about writing a letter.
He replenishes the nib with ink.
He puts down the pen and leans back in his chair with a defeated air.
He goes over to the paned window.
The two young boys with their fishing rods and nets.
They scramble down a hill towards the river.
Darcy, striding through cloisters in his gown and mortarboard.
Darcy throws open a door to find Wickham in a compromising position with a lady.
Wickham just smiles at him.
Darcy hands Wickham a check.
At the door, Wickham turns.
Wickham bumps into Darcy's sister.
He kisses her had, looking up at her with a flirtatious smile.
Georgiana and Wickham walk arm-in-arm by the sea.
Darcy's carriage pulls up at the sea front.
He jumps down and peers over a wall.
Wickham and Georgiana are on the rocks below together.
Georgiana spies her brother, her face breaks into a smile.
When the door has closed behind Wickham, Georgiana turns her sorrowful gaze to Darcy, then slowly walks over to be comforted by him.
Letter finished, and now disheveled Darcy leans wearily back in chair and closes his eyes.
Then, with renewed energy, he dips his pen in the ink pot once more.
Outside, the sun is setting, casting a salmon pink glow over Rosings.
The next morning, Darcy splashes his face with water from a silver basin, then pats it dry.
He's still wearing the same white shirt from the night before, with the top few buttons undone.
His manner is troubled and agitated.
He snuffs out last night's candle, which is all but burned out.
On the bureau is the sealed letter addressed to Miss Elizabeth Bennet.
Lizzy wanders over to the breakfast table.
Lizzy heads out, leaving the others to resume their breakfast.
It's a bright, sunny day, and Lizzy's taking a walk in the park, swinging her bonnet casually to and fro.
Suddenly, she breaks into a run, racing as fast as she can across the grass.
She slows down to a walk again, and heads onward through the trees, not really taking in her surroundings.
Suddenly, she becomes aware of a man standing with his back to her, a few meters ahead.
He turns, just as she's trying to slip away unnoticed.
He hands it to her, bows, then heads off.
Lizzy watches him for a moment, looks down at the letter, then searches for a comfortable place in which to read it.
She settles down on a large tree stump.
Lizzy folds up the letter and walks off.
Mariah follows her inside and up the stairs.
But, Lizzie hurries to her room and shuts the door behind her.
Inside, she sits down near a window and opens up the letter again.
Lizzie cringes as she remembers her family's improper behavior.
Then she looks down at the letter once more.
Darcy watches from above as Jane heads out dressed in a grey cloak and bonnet.
Lizzie is now walking with Mr. Collins.
Mr. Collins goes to bid his farewells to Lizzie.
He looks over at his wife and gives her a little wave.
She and Lizzie exchange a knowing smile.
The horse-drawn carriage pulls away from the parsemage, gathering speed along the country road.
Lizzie and Mariah are sitting inside.
Mariah has a notebook open.
Lizzie leans forward in her seat, looking thoughtful.
As she stares out of the window, memories of Darcy pass through her mind.
Platter of horses' hooves snaps at the rubbery.
Finally, carriage pulls up outside a busy inn.
Lydia opens one of the upper windows excitedly.
Lizzie waves up at her and Kitty.
Lydia indicates that she'll come down and meet them then closes the window.
She embraces her sister warmly then sits back on the bed.
He leaves the room.
Angrily, she throws down her knife, fork, and napkin.
Now, Lizzie's out in the garden, carrying a basket full of flowers.
She walks around Jane, who's busy sniffing blooms to put in her truck.
Lizzie casts frequent concerned glances over at her sister.
She comes over and takes Lizzie's hand.
Jane sets off back towards the house, carrying her basket of flowers.
As Lizzie is about to follow, her mother appears.
Kitty stomps back into the house.
Lizzie is with her father.
Mr. Bennett gently pulls Lizzie onto a seat beside him.
Officers from Wickham's regiment are taking tea at Longbourn.
Lydia is having the time of her life.
Wickham makes his way over to Lizzie.
Lizzie takes a sip of tea.
Now, it's the day of Lydia's departure.
Lydia waves excitedly at them all as the carriage pulls away.
Mrs. Bennet is close to tears.
Kitty is fighting back tears of frustration.
He heads inside and the girls follow him.
Kitty still sobbing.
A carriage drawn by four white horses arrives at Longbourn.
Lizzie and Jane rush out to meet it.
They wave excitedly at the occupants.
Four children emerge first from the cab.
Lizzie kisses her aunt and uncle.
Lizzie and the Gardiners are traveling through the rolling hills of the Peaks.
Darcy is practicing his fencing.
They shake hands and Baines leaves.
Lizzie is picking her away across the rocks at the top of a hill.
The Gardiners are watching her from the bottom of the slope.
Lizzie gazes at the countryside around her.
That evening, the three of them are eating supper.
Mrs. Gardiner looks at Lizzie.
Lizzie smiles.
The next day, the open-topped carriage is making its way through the green countryside, towards Pemberley.
It crosses a tiny, single-arched bridge over a stream.
Lizzie and Mrs. Gardiner sit facing Mr. Gardiner.
The carriage continues on its way, passing through woods in the bright sunshine.
Then, the magnificent Pemberley appears.
Lizzie's breath is taken away by the sheer splendor of the classical, stately home.
Lizzie nods with a broad smile.
The carriage rolls beneath a grand, ornate arch leading to Pemberley.
Inside, the housekeeper shows them a beautiful mahogany writing desk.
They continue on, into the next room.
The housekeeper turns to Lizzie.
Lizzie walks over to the window and looks out at the lake, mirror- like, at the foot of the lawn.
A portrait of Georgiana, seated and looking pensive.
A miniature portrait of a rather haughty young man.
They head up a grand, white staircase.
Outside, a white horse is cantering along a wooden path.
Astride it is Darcy, dressed elegantly in top hat and frock coat.
Bringing the horse to a halt, he stares from the hilltop, over at Pemberley, which can just be glimpsed through the trees.
He breathes deeply, as if trying to come to a decision.
Then suddenly, he sets the horse in motion again and gallops onwards.
Near a lake, he stops and quickly dismounts.
He takes off his top hat and starts to undo his coat.
Inside, the tour of Pemberley continues.
The housekeeper leads them into a magnificent long hall, lined with paintings on one side and windows on the other.
She stops in front of one of the paintings.
Lizzie gazes up at the portrait.
It's a likeness of Darcy, staring proudly out at them.
Outside, Darcy has now taken off his frock coat.
He lays it on the grass, sits on it, and undoes his cravat.
His dark hair curls with sweat.
Then he unbuttons his waistcoat and slips it off.
Inside, Lizzie is still gazing up at his portrait.
Darcy stands at the very edge of the lake, now in just his breeches and loose, white shirt.
Steeling himself, he dives in.
He plunges down into the murky, green waters, then begins to swim with long, effortless strokes.
Lizzie is now admiring the formal gardens.
Darcy is striding towards Pemberley, his wet shirt clinging to his broad chest.
His groom leads the horse behind him.
The groom goes off in one direction, Darcy in the other.
He emerges from the trees, into a field filled with buttercups.
He makes his way down the hill, towards the large lake fronting Pemberley, its classic lines reflected in the still waters.
Lizzie is also making her way down to the lake, lost in thought.
She turns to see Darcy striding out of the woods towards her.
Darcy stops dead in his tracks.
He bows, then continues on his way just as the Gardiners come down the hill towards Lizzie, who's looking a little unsettled.
Darcy hurries down some steps into the courtyard, quickly pulling on his coat.
He pauses for a moment, trying to decide which direction to go.
Then, he marches off through an archway, where he catches up with Lizzie.
He walks off and Mrs. Gardiner takes Lizzie's arm.
They set off after Darcy and Mr. Gardiner, who are walking a few paces ahead.
When they stop to look at the view, Lizzie hangs back.
Darcy comes over to her, leaving the Gardiners to their admiration of the countryside.
He and Lizzie walk on together.
Lizzie keeps her gaze averted from him.
The party continue their walk through the trees.
Lizzie and Darcy a fair distance ahead of the Gardiners.
Later, Darcy is helping Lizzie up into her carriage.
As the carriage draws away, Darcy stands watching it.
Lizzie turns to see him grow ever smaller in the distance.
A lady's hand at work on a delicate piece of floral embroidery.
Smooth rocks sculpted by the wind and the beautiful countryside of the Peak District stretching out to the horizon.
Lizzie is walking down a narrow, cobbled street.
A young woman leans out of a top window of a building as Lizzie passes below.
Lizzie looks surprised.
She goes inside and heads straight into the parlor, where Mr. Darcy is sitting waiting for her.
As soon as he sees her enter, he leaps up from his seat.
He bows in greeting.
Lizzie curtsies in return.
He indicates a young woman standing on the other side of the room.
Lizzie goes over.
The two ladies curtsy.
Mr. Darcy nods and leaves the room.
Lizzie looks at Georgiana and smiles.
Mr. Bingley enters the room.
Georgiana curtsies and leaves them to it.
That evening Mr. Darcy watches Lizzie with adoring eyes as she plays and sings at the piano.
A number of guests are gathered in the drawing room to listen, including Mr. Bingley, the Gardiners, Louisa Hurst, and Miss Bingley, who has a sour look on her face.
Mr. Gardiner smiles over at Mr. Darcy.
Georgiana is standing at Lizzie's side.
She looks down at her.
They both look over at Mr. Darcy.
Then Lizzie gets up.
Lizzie sets the music out for her.
Then she makes her way across the room.
Miss Bingley stops her.
Mr. Darcy sits up.
Embarrassed, Lizzie hurries back over to Georgiana.
Slowly, Lizzie raises her eyes to meet Mr. Darcy's.
He's sitting across the room, watching her with an enraptured expression.
The two gaze at each other, their eyes filled with warmth and understanding.
Later, as dusk is falling, a carriage pulls away from Pemberley, waved off by Mr. Bingley, Mr. Darcy, and Georgiana.
Mr. Bingley and Georgiana head inside together, arm in arm.
But Mr. Darcy remains on the doorstep, watching the carriage clatter its way down the long, curving driveway.
Moments later, he and Mr. Bingley stride back into the drawing room, where Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley are waiting.
He gives Miss Bingley a piercing stare and she looks away.
Now, he's walking through the magnificent portrait-lined hall at Pemberley, holding aloft a candle to light his way.
Two dogs trot along at his heels.
He makes his way into the now-darkened drawing room and places the candle on a mantelpiece.
He pauses for a moment, leaning against the fireplace, as if lost in thought.
Then he looks over at the piano Lizzie was playing earlier that evening and his expression softens.
He remembers her lifting her eyes to meet his, a moment frozen in time.
The next day dawns grey and misty over Pemberley.
As Darcy is standing in front of his mirror, getting dressed, his butler brings him his frock coat.
He takes it and pulls it on.
Now, he's galloping through the grounds on his white horse, dressed immaculately in bottle-green frock coat, cream breeches, riding boots, and a top hat.
He gives the horse a faint tap with a whip and and it speeds up the grassy hill.
At Lambton, the maid comes in to find Lizzie and the Gardiners.
Mr. Gardiner goes over to the door and opens it.
They head out, leaving Lizzie alone with her letters.
She settles down and opens the first one.
A messenger dismounts from his horse.
In his night things, Mr. Bennet calmly opens the door.
The messenger hands him a letter.
Mr. Bennet passes the housekeeper his candle, then opens the letter.
Lizzie's eyes fill with tears.
Wickham turns to look at Lydia.
Lizzie hurriedly opens the next letter.
Lizzie puts down the letters and hurries over to the door.
Mr. Darcy strides in.
The maid appears.
Mr. Darcy sits down and takes Lizzie's hand.
Lizzie breaks down in tears.
Mr. Darcy raises a hand to his mouth.
Mr. Darcy leaps from his seat.
Mr. Darcy's mouth is tight, brows furrowed.
Lizzie lowers her eyes.
Sadness fills her face.
She curtsies.
Mr. Darcy gives his usual, stilted bow in return.
He turns and leaves the room.
At the door, he stops and looks back at Lizzie for a moment before finally walking out.
The horses are being harnessed to the carriage outside.
Mrs. Gardiner and Lizzie emerge, dressed in their outdoor clothes.
Lizzie turns to him.
She climbs into the carriage.
At Pemberley, Mr. Darcy is sitting in the drawing room, watching Georgiana practice her piano playing.
The Hursts, Mr. Bingley, and Miss Bingley are also present.
Miss Bingley stands up.
With a look of utter contempt, Mr. Darcy leaves the room.
The two sisters exchange glances.
At Longbourn, the Gardiners' four children are playing on the lawn when the carriage pulls into the driveway.
They quickly hurry over to greet it.
As the four white horses come to a halt, the footman comes over to open the carriage door and help Lizzie out.
Briefly greeting the children, Lizzie hurries inside, where Jane has come to meet her.
In her bedroom, Mrs. Bennet is lying back in her chair, fanning herself.
Meanwhile, Mr. Darcy is traveling in a carriage, his expression thoughtful and determined.
Four chestnut horses speed through the countryside, a seated driver and two footmen on the back of Darcy's carriage.
Now, the Bennet sisters are taking lunch with the Gardiners.
Later, Lizzie enters a room and finds Jane standing at the window, gazing out at the gardens.
She shuts the door behind her, then walks over to her sister.
Lizzie opens it and begins to read.
Lydia and Wickham climb into a carriage in the dead of night.
Jane looks away with a serious expression, and Lizzie leaves the room.
Now, Lizzie is in her nightgown, standing in front of the mirror in her room.
Slowly, she looks herself in the eye, then sits down.
Her face is full of sorrow, and her eyes are glistening with as yet unshed tears.
She remembers Mr. Darcy striding away from her.
The knock disturbs her thoughts.
Jane comes in and shuts the door behind her.
She walks over to Lizzie and takes her hand.
Lizzie looks down, then takes Jane's hand again.
Meanwhile, Mr. Darcy has arrived at a coaching inn.
As the innkeeper leads him, a serving boy comes out with tankards full of ale.
Mr. Darcy takes one and drinks from it.
The next day, Kitty is playing with a cup and bowl in the garden.
She spies a two-wheeled curricle approaching through the trees.
She quickly scampers off across the lawn.
The curricle continues on its way, Mr. Collins perched on the back.
Now, he's standing in the parlor as Jane, Lizzie, and Mary enter.
The three girls sit down.
Jane and Lizzie rise from their seats.
Lizzie and Jane have sat back down again, and Mr. Collins regards the three girls with condescension.
The three sisters are now standing, watching him coldly.
Having backed out of the parlor, he makes his way over to the curricle outside.
With a sympathetic shake of the head, he climbs up into the carriage.
Lizzie and Jane have come out to see him off.
They wave him off.
As soon as the coast is clear, Kitty peers out from behind a wall.
She bustles over to the house.
Lydia is sitting, looking out of a lead-paned window, humming happily to herself.
She glances over at Wickham.
Wickham smiles.
At Longbourn, Jane runs up the stairs.
She bursts into Mrs. Bennet's room.
Jane wafts the vial under her mother's nose.
Mr. Bennet arrives home in the pouring rain.
Jane and Lizzie are waiting for him.
He steps inside, takes off his top hat and black cloak, and heads into his study, closing the door behind him.
Jane and Lizzie are watching him with some concern.
The two sisters exchange worried glances.
Mr. Darcy is wandering through a cobbled street, bustling with people and horses.
He makes his way down the crowded street, looking slightly lost.
When he reaches a corner, a young beggar girl stops him to ask for money.
As he searches his pockets for coins, he asks her for directions.
She indicates the road he should take.
Finally, he finds the house he's looking for and bangs on the door.
As the door opens, a woman looks shocked to see Darcy.
Her housekeeper quickly tries to shut him out.
The Bennet sisters are still sitting in the parlor.
Jane puts down her book and is just going to pour the tea when Mr. Bennet comes in.
All four girls look at him expectantly as he takes a seat.
Kitty is sobbing.
Seeing Kitty's distress, Mr. Bennet's face falls, and he leaves the room.
Meanwhile, Mr. Darcy is back out, searching the darkened streets, clutching a piece of paper in his hand.
He gazes up at a house.
Lydia, meanwhile, is getting more and more bored by the minute.
She gets up off the bed and wanders over to the window.
Wickham's drinking wine.
A young man is galloping along on horseback in the bright sunshine.
The housekeeper peers out of the window at Longbourn, and seeing the messenger arriving, quickly hurries out to meet him.
He pulls a letter out of his saddlebag, dismounts, and gives it to her in exchange for a few coins.
She heads back inside, studying the unopened letter, and goes to knock on the door of Mr. Bennet's study.
She goes inside and hands over the letter.
Mr. Bennet leaves the letter on the desk until the housekeeper has left.
The housekeeper now makes her way out into the garden to take down the washing.
Jane and Lizzie are picking fruit.
Lizzie puts down her basket and rushes off, quickly followed by Jane.
The two girls hurry around the outside of the house, then across the wide expanse of lawn, looking for their father.
They spot him, arms behind his back, strolling pensively into the shade of the trees.
They rush over to him.
Lizzie sits down with the letter.
Lizzie stands up, looking perturbed.
Later, Lizzie's in Jane's bedroom in her nightgown.
Jane sits by the fire, drying her hair.
Lizzie sits sadly on the stool at the foot of Jane's bed.
Mr. Darcy's expression is one of determined constancy.
A lady's hand at work on a delicate piece of floral embroidery.
Lizzie stands and leaves.
With a heavy heart, Lizzie makes her way over to her father's study.
She pauses to watch him through the doorway and slowly goes inside.
He turns round and takes her hand.
Two of them listen to Mrs. Bennet's hysterical chatter.
Lizzie does so.
A building fronted by magnificent pillared portico.
An open-topped carriage pulls up, drawn by two white horses.
Lydia gets out, dressed in a simple, empire line wedding dress and bonnet, and carrying a bunch of flowers.
The Gardiners are with her.
Beaming, she takes Mr. Gardiner's hand and heads up the steps.
Inside, Mr. Wickham stands up, ready to receive his bride.
Mr. Darcy appears beside him, his face taut with anger.
Lydia walks down the aisle, grinning, and takes her place beside Mr. Wickham at the altar.
The vicar comes to stand before them.
An open-topped carriage trundles down the long driveway at Longbourn.
Mr. and Mrs. Wickham are sitting in the back.
The Bennet family come out to greet them.
Mrs. Bennet waving a white handkerchief excitedly above her head.
Mrs. Bennet takes her husband's arm and leads the way.
Jane makes to follow them.
Jane and Lizzie exchange glances, then head inside, followed by Mary and Kitty.
Later, the girls are out walking.
Mr. Wickham is showing off his riding skills nearby.
Wickham canters past them and makes his horse jump over a log.
Wickham rides past them again, and Lydia grins cheekily at her sisters.
Lizzie looks thoughtful.
Mr. Gardiner proffers his hand, and the deal is done.
Wickham finds Lizzie reading the letter.
She looks away, embarrassed.
They walk together in the gardens of Longbourn.
She offers him her hand, and he kisses it, then the two of them go inside.
An empty carriage arrives at Longbourn.
As it pulls to a halt and the footman opens the door, the Wickhams emerge from the house, surrounded by Lydia's sisters and parents.
He ushers Lydia into the carriage.
With that, the carriage pulls away, and Lydia leans out of the window to wave a cheery goodbye to her family.
Later, Lizzie and Jane are taking a turn in the gardens, the bright sun beating down on them.
Whilst indoors, Mary practices her piano.
Kitty is busy decorating a straw bonnet with ribbon.
She stops, looks wearily at the bonnet, then tosses it away.
Mrs. Bennet is lying back on a chaise lounge in her room, fanning herself and ordering the servants about.
Mr. Bennet is sitting peacefully by the fire in the parlor, reading a book and sipping a glass of wine.
Now, Lizzie, in her room, in her nightgown.
She goes to sit in front of the mirror, gazing sadly at her reflection, then leans forward and blows out the candle.
A bright, sunny day.
Mrs. Phillips is coming to visit her sister, Mrs. Bennet, at Longbourn.
A horse and cart filled with trunks pulls up at Netherfield.
Inside the house, shutters are opened and smoke pours out of the chimney as the fires are lit.
A procession of servants troop inside, carrying baskets of food and provisions.
Mr. Bingley is out shooting.
They're in the kitchen, hanging up bunches of herbs.
Lizzie looks at her sister.
Mary's at the piano.
As Mrs. Bennet scurries over to the window, Jane tries to hide her excitement.
Lizzie breathes deeply.
Mrs. Bennet checks her reflection in the mirror.
She quickly takes a seat as the housekeeper shows their guests in.
Jane and Lizzie look nervous as the two gentlemen enter and bow.
Everybody takes their seats, except Mr. Darcy, who strolls over to the window.
He smiles at Jane.
Mr. Darcy continues looking out of the window as Lizzie glares at her mother with embarrassment.
The two gentlemen are now on their horses, riding away from Longbourn.
Jane and Lizzie take a stroll in the gardens.
They continue on their walk, Jane looking somewhat sheepish.
At Netherfield, Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy emerge from the front door.
Astonished, Mr. Bingley watches as Mr. Darcy climbs into his carriage.
The carriage pulls away, and Mr. Bingley immediately looks around for the nearest servant.
Now, he's on horseback, trotting through a shady avenue of trees, on his way to Longbourn.
She bursts into Lizzie's room.
Now, an awkward-looking Mr. Bingley is sitting opposite Lizzie, Kitty, and Jane in the parlor.
An uneasy silence descends, during which Mrs. Bennet winks at Kitty and Lizzie, gesturing to Jane and Mr. Bingley.
Kitty glances at Jane, then at her mother, in confusion.
She nods to Mr. Bingley, then leaves the room, followed by Mary and Kitty.
Once they have left, Mr. Bingley sits back down.
Lizzie casually takes up her embroidery, turning slightly to afford Mr. Bingley and Jane some privacy.
Lizzie puts down her embroidery, smiles at Mr. Bingley, then leaves the room.
She gives Jane a warning glance as she leaves.
Mr. Bingley looks nervously down at Jane, who eventually raises her eyes demurely to meet his.
An anxious Mrs. Bennet and the rest of the girls are sitting in another room, waiting.
Mrs. Bennet sits with a smug expression.
Moments later, Lizzie is skipping quietly down the stairs.
She treads silently up to the door of the parlor, then walks inside to find her sister and Mr. Bingley standing together at the mantelpiece.
Mr. Bingley leans in and whispers something to Jane, then takes his leave.
Lizzie immediately turns to her sister.
She kisses her sister on the cheek, then leaves the room.
When she's gone, Liz's broad smile turns to an expression of contented relief.
A little later, Mr. Bennet and the rest of the family are seeing Mr. Bingley out.
Mr. Bingley smiles briefly at Jane, then climbs up onto his white horse.
Mrs. Bennet waves her handkerchief at him as Mr. Bingley sets off.
Mr. Bennet stands next to Jane.
As they all head inside, Jane hangs back for a moment and turns to Lizzie.
They walk indoors together arm in arm.
An elegant carriage is arriving at Longbourn, complete with four horses and liberate footmen.
Seeing this, Kitty quickly runs over to the house.
Lady Catherine de Bourgh and her daughter, Anne, are inside the carriage.
She points over to the window and Lizzie and her mother quickly hurry over to see for themselves.
As Lady Catherine steps inside, Lizzie, Kitty and Mrs. Bennet all curtsy.
With a haughty expression, she marches over to take a seat.
Lizzie, Kitty and Mrs. Bennet remain standing, looking at her with a certain amount of expectant unease.
Lady Catherine heads out and Lizzie follows her, looking puzzled.
Now, they're out in a less well tended area of the garden, Lady Catherine striding ahead, with Lizzie a couple of paces behind her.
She marches over to a clearing under a tree, bounded by two small stone benches, then turns to Lizzie.
Relief floods Lady Catherine's face.
She climbs into her carriage, leaving Lizzie breathless with anger.
The carriage departs.
Lizzie watches it go.
Her expression getting little away.
She then turns indoors.
Later, Mr. Bennett hurries out of his study to find Lizzie.
She strolls inside.
Mr. Bennett closes the door behind her.
The girls and Mrs. Bennett are all sitting in the parlor, engaged in reading and embroidery.
Mr. Darcy bows to Lizzie.
They set off.
Jane walk in with Mr. Bingley and Lizzie with Mr. Darcy, Kitty trailing behind.
Kitty skips off.
Lizzie and Mr. Darcy are left to walk onwards alone.
She smiles up at Mr. Darcy, whose expression softens lightly, though still remaining inscrutable.
They walk on together.
He looks down at her.
She gazes up at him.
The two couples walk on down the country lane.
He bends down and kisses her tenderly on top of the head.
Mr. Bingley and Jane.
Outside the church, two young girls hold up an arch of green foliage and berries for Mr. Bingley and Jane to walk under.
They step up into the waiting carriage, well wishers surrounding them on every side.
Behind them, Mr. Darcy and Lizzie also pass beneath the arch.
Lizzie's face is a picture of joy, while even Mr. Darcy's usual stern expression has softened into a beaming smile.
They two step up into the carriage that awaits them.
Jane gazes adoringly at her new husband.
Then the two carriages lurch away, the crowd of well wishers waving them off.
The ground is covered with a light dusting of snow.
Lizzie and Mr. Darcy gaze tenderly into each other's eyes, and slowly he leans forward and kisses her gently on the lips.
At School.
Young women walk with books balanced on their heads.
The girls lead to dance.
Circling the hall in pairs.
They use whisks in the cookery class.
Heavy snow is falling.
A teenage girl walks down sub-urban street.
She has long dark hair.
She is wearing school uniform.
Girls playing hula hoop in the playground.
Girls breathe on a cold window.
They make foot shapes in condensation.
They play lacrosse.
The girls daydream and doze.
In class.
The girl scratches the back of her ankle with her other foot.
A graphic paper plane flies into a bin.
The girls daydream and look bored.
Her father sips his juice.
Jenny is at orchestra practice.
A young boy next to her on violin stares at her
She waves to an older fresh faced lad in the violin section.
The youngsters tape the mickey and Jenny size in frustration.
Jenny and the violinist exchanged glances as they play.
Later Jenny frowns at the sky.
She leaves orchestra practice.
She stands getting soaked to the bus stop.
The car speeds past.
The woman with the pram and a young boy nearly gets run over.
The car pulls over beside Jenny.
She avoids eye-contact with the handsome driver.
He gets out of the car.
He runs around to put the cello in the back seat.
He gets back behind the wheel.
He drives up at walking pace beside Jenny.
She hops into the passenger seat.
David changes gear.
They arrive on Jenny's niche tree-lined street.
A large black car overtakes them.
David nods and gives a tight smile.
Jenny smiles and gets out of the car.
Lying on the floor of her room.
Jenny sings along with the record which spins on the small player on the floor.
Jenny winces as Graham flounders.
He resorts to his tea.
On another day Jenny meets the card in a large bouquet of flowers.
Her father frowns.
Her mother smirks as Jenny strides off on the garden path.
David's crossed the road in front of them.
Jenny agonizes.
They shake hands.
Jenny heads back to her friends.
They sit awkwardly in the living room.
Jack studying David.
David gallantly kisses Marjorie's hand.
David and Jenny run through the London rain, up stone steps to the concert venue.
The men and women pair up and go in.
Jenny admires glamorous blond Helen.
She touches her fur stole.
The pair walk off together.
Helen taps Jenny playfully on the shoulder.
Jenny and David listened rapt attention to the concert.
Helen looks unimpressed and sleepy.
Danny concentrates serenely.
Jenny smiles to herself as she listens.
Later, everyone files out at the concert hall.
They walked to the night club.
A platinum blonde singer fronts the band.
Jenny smiles as she looks around to the glamorous halll, and all table lamps.
Helen and Danny, exchanged a worried look.
David glances at Jenny who freezes.
Jenny smiles happily as she applauds the singer.
She keeps watching the stage.
Danny and Helen talk together.
Jenny watches the glamorous couple.
As David looks at her, she glances at him.
She smiles, self consciously.
Helen and Danny are completely wrapped up in one another.
Jenny smiles at David, and they both laugh.
She grins happily to herself.
Jenny arrives home.
She cautiously opens the door.
She walks quietly in.
Her mother's in the kitchen.
Her mother gives a non-committal nod.
She goes back to her casserole.
Margarie glances over her shoulder.
Jenny trudges sadly from the kitchen.
David's waiting by his car outside the school.
Jenny hurries out.
She's changed out of her school uniform.
They both grin.
She gets into the passenger seat.
David gets behind the wheel.
The Bristol drives off to the auction.
Danny smiles knowingly.
The woman shakes her head.
And again, Jenny's reaching with excitement.
David's grinning.
Danny's place is palatial.
It's filled with art and luxury furniture.
Helen turns, and stares at her.
They shake on it.
Later, they're in David's car.
They park up at a part of town with tall townhouses.
He takes his hat.
He approaches a family, waiting with baggage on the corner.
Jenny smiles, watching his easy manner as he slings a young lad under one arm, and helps with the bags.
David shows the family in through a wooden front door.
An older woman peers out through some of that curtains.
Jenny looks up at her.
She then leans forward, opens the glove box and takes out a packet of cigarettes.
She lights one.
She watches David return to the car.
Jenny slumps onto her desk.
Later she is at home.
Stunned Jenny looks to her mother.
She goes to a cafe with friends.
Graham cycles up.
Scrimming, Graham tries to laugh it off.
Jenny emerges from her bedroom out of a landing.
She listens to her parents talking downstairs.
Jenny looks wistful.
Jenny suppresses her giggle.
Helen is putting a scarf in Jenny's hair.
Wearing Helen's little bright dress, Jenny smiles nervously.
Jenny is wearing a stylish coat.
She has her hair neatly done up.
Danny and David stand and admire the affect.
They drive through the country side in David's Bristol.
Sun shines on the palatial stone buildings of Oxford.
Jenny stares at the spires.
Helen shutters.
Later they're in a pub.
Jenny grins and closes the book.
Later she is getting ready for bed.
David's on the bed fully clothed.
She comes out of the bathroom.
She looks at him, shifting awkwardly.
Davids smiles but squirms at her discomfort.
He indicates that's a yes.
Jenny smiles and pulls her nightie off her shoulders.
David heaves a sigh.
Embarrassed, Jenny avoids eye contact.
Then David smiles, stands and moves to her.
He pulls her nightie back on.
He goes to kiss her.
He hugs her instead.
Her arms remained by her sides.
Then she puts them round him.
They hold one another.
Sun shines on the small village.
The Bristol pulls up at some old-timbered houses.
Jenny stands completely aghast as the men walk away.
She and Helen walk through a cemetery.
They've slipped a picture in the back of the car.
Jenny stops playing ball with some children and harries over.
The picture, a map is sitting between Jenny and Helen on the back seat.
Jenny eyes him wearily.
Later they arrive at Danny's place.
Jenny takes her bags and strides off.
Pausing at the cab Jenny doesn't even look at David.
She stops angrily on the middle of the road.
She turns to him.
He wonders over wanting to explain.
He looks at her imploringly, then grins.
She can't help to grin back.
He takes all of her bags.
She makes a show of pulling away.
He takes her hand and twirls her around.
They hug and slow dance in the street.
On a colonnaded balcony, Danny hold up two glasses.
At night the Bristol arrives back at Jenny's house.
Jenny sits glumly in the passenger seat.
David looks across at her.
Wearing a tight smile, she doesn't look at him.
He smiles lovingly at her, looks down.
Very slowly they lean together and kiss.
She pulls away.
They smile then sit awkwardly.
Jenny puts her handbag on the kitchen table.
She shows it to her father.
Marjorie stops her cake baking.
She goes to look at the book.
Jenny licks cake mixture of the whisk.
She grins to herself.
At school the girls are in their PE get out for a run.
Jenny and her friends are hiding behind a tree smoking.
The teacher arrives.
The girls file out of the classroom.
Tina sticks her tongue out.
Jenny enters the heads' wood paneled office.
The headmistress watches Jenny leave.
At home, the dinning room is in darkness.
Graham has come for tea.
Jenny closes her eyes.
Marjorie puts the candle decked cake down in front of Jenny.
Jack switches the lights back on.
Marjorie drops Graham's slice of cake.
Jenny unwraps the present.
Jenny tries to look pleased.
She shows Graham.
Jenny accepts the gift with a tight smile.
She places it on the other one.
Jack gets up to answer the door.
David is laden with presents.
Jack's flummoxed.
Jenny picks up her parcels.
She goes into the living room, glaring at her father.
David hangs his head.
Jenny sighs.
Jack struggles to make the next move.
David gleams at Jenny who tries to suppress a broad grin.
They drive off for the evening.
Jenny looks around the sparsely furnished room with modern wooden furniture.
She shoots him a glance.
Later they are lying in bed together.
They lie kissing face to face.
David in his pajama bottoms gets up.
Jenny sits up.
She watches him go through to the other room.
She self consciously adjusts her nightie.
Jenny is stumped.
She buries her face in her pillow.
He flops down on the bed.
He studies her uncertainly.
He smiles apologetically and hangs his head.
He sits side by side on the satin.
Jenny grins at David then reaches forward and grabs a banana.
Sun shines on the Eiffel Tower.
Jenny and David in film stars sunglasses wander among booksellers on the banks of the Seine.
Jenny finds a book she loves.
She looks imploringly at David.
He smiles and reaches for his wallet.
He holds her hand as she walks along high wall.
David boxes Jenny into position for a photo of her with Notre Dame Cathedral in the background.
She poses.
The guy on a bicycle checks her out as he rides past.
David's less than impressed, then takes another photo.
They run up steep stones steps then walk arm in arm.
They join another couples slow dancing in the sunshine to a record playing on a small portable turntable.
They lie cheek to cheek.
They drink wine with a picnic by the river of dusk.
Jenny rests her head on David's shoulder.
In the morning, Jenny looks out from their hotel at the great dome of the Sacre-Coeur.
She smiles, thinks for a moment then shakes her head.
Jenny puts a bottle of Chanel on her teachers desk.
Disappointedly, Jenny puts the bottle back in her satchel.
The teacher looks up as she leaves.
The words hit home and Jenny thinks hard.
Jenny challenges Miss Stubs with a look.
Miss Stubs turns away.
Gray hounds burst out of starting gates into the track.
Jenny, David, Danny and Helen were in the crowd.
They climb the stands to a private suite.
David shakes hands with a man by the door.
They file in.
Jenny gives her coat to Danny.
Their contact is holding court in a white dinner jacket.
Danny and David move off.
Jenny and Helen drink champagne.
Danny leads Jenny to the dance floor.
They move flirtatiously.
Helen worriedly watches David watching them.
Jenny and Danny dance with their eyes locked together.
Jenny smiles, her gaze never wavering from his.
David watches them expressionlessly.
Helen looks bored, then smiles ruefully at David.
David smiles, then turns to watch the dancers returning.
Helen and Danny watch them leave.
David and Jenny walk to the car park in their overcoats.
David opens the boot and rummages inside.
Her eyes wheel up as she looks at him.
He tries to take her hand.
Back at home, she sits studying.
She slams down her book.
She opens the bedroom window.
Smoking, she looks out to the street lights.
Her parents are downstairs in the kitchen.
Jenny watches her parents doing the washing up.
It's an engagement ring.
Miss Stubs looks daggers at her.
The headmistress straightens archly.
Jenny rolls her tear filled eyes.
Jenny turns and walks out.
Jenny walks down a corridor carrying her blazer and satchel.
She glances into her classroom as she walks out of the school's main doors.
She walks down the pavement, then breaks into a run.
A gaggle of her friends watch her go.
Danny's got a stuffed armadillo.
Danny looks worried.
David and Jenny leave Danny's place.
They head for the car.
David opens the door for her.
They drive off into the London twilight.
Marjorie eyes her husband reproachfully.
David shakes Jack's hand.
They troop out to the Bristol.
They hit for town in the gathering twilight.
They stop off at the petrol station.
The attendant pumps the fuel.
David goes into the shop of the village garage.
Jenny reaches into the glove box for the cigarettes.
The packet is empty.
Jack manages to break a door handle.
There's a pile of envelopes in the glove box.
Jenny looks through them.
David returns from the garage.
David notices Jenny looks at the envelopes.
Jenny sits expressionlessly as they drive back.
Jenny gets out and steps away from the car.
Her parents go indoors and David approaches Jenny.
He shakes his head.
She looks at the envelopes then shoves them back at him.
David looks at her pleadingly.
They stand apart.
Jenny wipes tears from her face.
David shakes his head.
He opens the boot and takes the bottle from a case.
Jenny eyes him frostily.
She turns on her heel and walks indoors.
David goes to the driver's door and gets in the car.
Indoors Jenny stands for lonely in the hallway.
David swigs from the bottle then drops it on the passenger seat.
He stares mournfully into the distance.
His lower lip trembles as he starts to cry.
Jenny fidgets in the hall staring at the front door.
Hearing the car Jack gets up and goes to the window.
Tears run down Jenny's cheeks as headlights sweep past the window.
Jenny hangs her head.
Danny's playing with a cricket ball as Helen sits with Jenny.
Helen stares at Danny.
Then gets up and moves away.
Helen hands Danny a drink and flashes Jenny a re-assuring smile.
Jenny crosses a street and approaches a house.
She pauses at the end of the garden path.
Then the front door opens.
A dark-haired woman with a little boy comes out.
Jenny shakes her head forlornly.
Jenny indicates that she's not.
Stunned, Jenny turns to leave.
Jenny walks away down the street.
Her worried parents are in the kitchen at home.
Marjorie looks to her husband who can't look his daughter in the eye.
Jenny goes upstairs.
Jack glares at his wife.
He stomps off into the living room.
Marjorie stands unhappily on her own in the hall.
Upstairs, Jenny is sorting clothes in her wardrobe.
Jenny turns and stares at the door.
Her father is outside the door with a cup of tea.
She stands, rooted to the spot.
She sits down on the bed.
Tears roll down Jenny's cheeks.
Jenny wipes away her tears.
Jenny's face crumbles.
She sobs into her hands.
Jack puts the tea and biscuits on the floor by the door.
Jenny is racked by sobs.
Later, she is in the head mistress' office.
Jenny's face falls.
Later she is sitting glumly on a bus.
She gets up and gets off the bus.
She goes to see Miss Stubs.
Jenny looks around the teachers roomy kitchen and comfortable sitting room.
Miss Stubs eyes her coolly as Jenny fights back tears and struggles for words.
Jenny smiles through her tears.
She sits down.
Miss Stubs makes tea.
Jenny reads a book on the bus.
With rain falling on the leaded windows of her room, Jenny sits at her desk, studying.
She snaps a book closed and throws it across the room in frustration.
Snow lies on a street light.
Blossoms bloom in the sunshine.
Jenny's reading and pacing.
At breakfast, her father is heading off to work.
He ruffles his daughter's hair as he walks past.
She's reading.
Jack comes back into the kitchen with an envelope.
Jenny stares at the envelope.
Then takes it.
Her parents study her as she reads it.
She puts the envelope down and leaves the kitchen.
Jack takes the letter and hands it to Marjorie.
Jenny goes to sit on the stairs.
A smile slowly spreads across Jenny's face.
The sun shines on the spires of Oxford.
Dawn glows orange, casting two people and a tree in silhouette.
His grandfather grabs his fishing pole.
The boy lies wide-eyed on the bottom as a White man in a suit falls face-first into the water.
He floats lifelessly over where the boy is lying, his blood staining the water.
Then sinks to the bottom.
He breaks the surface and sees a horse panicking in the water.
He reaches out towards it.
The horse swims towards him and he strokes its muzzle.
He climbs on the horse's back and urges the animal on and out of the water.
Wearing only shorts, his long hair streaming out behind him, he rides through a dusty landscape of thinly spread out trees and soaring rocky crags.
He rides through a settlement of wood buildings and animal pens.
A bonfire's smoke mixes with the dust in the air.
An animal skull hangs from a dry branch.
He spots a massively overloaded truck approaching through the dusty haze and dismounts, looking worried.
He sprints through the settlement called Faraway Downs.
He hides in a water tank as a man tries to grab the horse.
He peeks through a crack in the tank.
An elegant woman in a bonnet and long coat strides purposefully towards the house.
A woman rides a horse and a car pulls up at a large country house.
A man in a bowler hat gets out of the car.
She frowns, her blue eyes glittering, and screws up the telegram.
She looks out of the airplane window at a port with a ship moored at a wharf.
The red-bearded speaker is sent sprawling.
The rough-looking crew in the bar look nervous.
Drover downs a drink and up-ends his glass.
An aboriginal man approaches.
The pipe-smoking barman glares at the black man.
Coolly, he closes the sealing doors.
Drover is busy with Bull with the red beard.
Sarah is marshaling her porters.
Sarah brushes past disdainfully.
Sarah strides on.
Drover is thrown over the bar, but comes up swinging.
The brawl's in full swing as Sarah approaches the pub.
As Sarah walks in the front door, the fight spills out the back.
She enters the pub and takes in the barman with the raised truncheon and the old drunk in the corner.
The barman rolls his eyes.
She heads for the door.
She walks out as Drover hurls Bull into her luggage.
They're hitting each other with the suitcases.
One bursts and underwear goes flying.
Carney watches with binoculars.
She approaches in horror through the brawlers, rubberneckers and flying undies.
Drover breaks a case over his opponent's head.
Bull goes down.
Sarah looks appalled at the exhausted Drover.
His black friend gestures that she's behind him.
He picks up something silky and holds it out, smiling apologetically.
He passes water to the men on the truck's roof.
Holding his dog, he looks at Sarah.
She looks out of the passenger window.
A kangaroo paw and a dribble of blood run down the windscreen.
She peers in horror through her desert glasses, her net veil blowing in the breeze.
The hunters lounge happily on top of the truck, which heads out across the flat, sandy desert.
They drive along the top of a weir, across a wide river.
At night, they camp around a fire.
Drover's washing his muscled torso, using water from a bucket.
Sarah pops her head out of her tent, staring as the water pours off his rippling muscles.
They mime keeping each other warm, and she ducks back into her tent.
He walks towards her with a raised eyebrow.
He pulls down the waistband of his trousers suggestively.
Camels pull a truck with no engine, watched by Goolaj and Magarri.
A man falls off the vehicle.
He lies in a heap in the dust.
Later, he's in the truck next to the horrified Sarah.
Drover nods.
They drive on across a flat, dusty plain.
They're bumping slowly along a rocky track.
A girl runs up to them.
The boy gallops on the horse, through the sparse trees.
The boy arrives at Faraway Downs and reins in the horse, looking out at the approaching truck.
The boy runs through the gate to the house, and leaps over a fence.
They just miss the horse, which rears up.
Thick smoke obscures the house.
As he loads, the boy climbs into the water tower.
Drover walks through the smoke.
The boy drops down inside the tower.
Sarah sits uncomfortably next to the drunk Kipling.
The smoke clears, revealing a large house.
Kipling collapses.
Drover, shrouded in smoke, walks past a dead cow.
Sarah, jaw set, gets out of the truck.
She stomps furiously towards the house, as Drover approaches a blazing funeral fire.
He examines it thoughtfully and looks around.
The boy stretches out his hands.
An aboriginal sitting on the ground.
As she enters the house, women hold out buckets of smoking leaves.
The boy poses mystically.
Sarah strides past members of the household and sees her husband, dead on a table.
She reels in shock.
He's got a wound in the middle of his chest.
His eyes stare glassily.
She stares at the Chinese man and reaches out to close Maitland's eyes, but a man's hand does it for her.
She eyes the man, her hand poised near Maitland's face.
Members of staff hover in the corners of the room.
The house is shrouded in a cloud of dust and smoke,its a big blaze but tiny in the vast landscape.
The boy watches from long grass.
He gives a smile as dry as the flat plains which stretch out to the hills on the horizon, and accompanies Sarah down the hill, away from the cemetery.
The sun sets on the darkening plains and hills.
Darkness settles on the house and buildings of Faraway Downs.
The lights go out.
Sarah is asleep in bed, moonlight filtering through the curtains.
Fletcher looks out at the night, and urges an aboriginal lady indoors.
As King George chants by a fire, Sarah sits bolt upright in bed and lights a lamp.
Something moves beneath the steps she's standing on, and King George dances by his hilltop fire.
She hurries indoors to find the boy in her bedroom.
As he strikes a pose, the curtains billowed.
He grins broadly.
Sarah's intrigued.
A shadow falls over the porch.
Fletcher peers in through the shutters, but seeing nothing and leaves.
Sarah stands up and looks around the room.
She goes to the window, accompanied by Nullah, and peers out.
She turns with a start.
The curtain is billowing.
Clothes hand on a line in the morning sun.
Fletcher emerges from his cabin.
Nullah's mother hovers in the doorway.
He looks around the homestead and scratches his head.
She follows him out.
Wearing an orange dress, she looks at Fletcher, then walks away from him and the cabin.
He idly tosses a stone and watches her go.
The sun rises in the clear blue sky.
Sarah walks out onto the veranda of the main house.
Nullah follows her.
He scampers off, as two riders approach.
Nullah, hiding behind the gate, opens it.
Nullah walks slowly to him.
She smiles and nods nervously.
Nullah pulls away from the Chinese cook.
He's climbed up and removed a chain holding the blades in place.
The windmill swings around and starts to turn.
They all stare as rusty water is pumped from a pipe.
Fletcher chases after the boy.
Nullah leaps over the fence before being grabbed by the man.
He holds the boy's mother aside and hits him again as Sarah strides up.
She cracks him across the face with a riding crop.
She points a finger with steely determination.
He reaches his truck, then looks around.
Flynn tilts his head stubbornly.
He backs up as Flynn joins Sarah.
He drives off into the dusty distance.
His Drovers abandon the cattle and ride off with him.
Sing Song watches without emotion.
Nullah, his mother and her friend comfort each other and also join Sarah.
She looks at Flynn, who respectfully removes his hat.
She looks at her little entourage, and turns and sheds her eyes from the sun.
Sarah sits at her messy desk.
Down below, Flynn is drinking rum.
He hides the bottle behind a Bible.
He stands sheepishly, hands in his pockets.
She looks at a loss.
She downs her tea cup of rum at a gulp.
A herd of horses has been being rounded up.
They thunder right past the house.
Sarah looks out of the door in amazement and stares straight into the eyes of the Drover, galloping alongside the herd.
Flynn laughs in delight and Nullah leaps for joy.
Sarah runs along the verandah watching the spectacle.
Drover reins his horse in, stares at Sarah and takes off again.
The horses are all rounded up.
She runs indignantly after him.
She gets off her knees.
She looks him right in the eye.
He considers the sleek black thoroughbred leaping in its enclosure.
He eyes her and walks off.
She's dressed for the English countryside.
She trots off in a huff as they start to ride around the cattle, moving them in to a single herd.
She gallops after the lone steer.
Back at the house.
Her luggage is being packed.
The sun beats down on the homestead and the windmill turns slowly.
Nullah and Daisy are carrying items of luggage for Sarah.
A truck is approaching.
Nullah spots it.
His eyes widen.
Nullah frantically climbs to the water tank as Sing Song grabs the dropped bags.
Sarah watches from indoors.
Daisy climbs with her son.
They are around the back of the tank, hidden from the truck.
Daisy is about to get in with the boy, but has to duck down and stay on the ladder to avoid being seen as the truck comes to a halt.
Sarah pulls back the curtain and looks out at the cops.
As the men look the other way, Daisy hurriedly climbs in after Nullah.
She takes the tea tray to her.
One man walks slowly towards the tank.
Daisy clings in fear to the ladder inside the tank, as the cop turns the water on in the pump.
More water floods in the tank.
Daisy holds her hand up for Nullah to grab.
Tracker crouches.
Daisy and Nullah cling frantically to the ladder.
The ladder collapses and they fall into the water.
Daisy lifts Nullah to grab on to a pipe.
 She gets a grip too.
The bar breaks and more water floods in.
The sergeant looks out at the water tower.
The Aboriginal tracker looks up and sees water poring out of holes at the top of the tower.
But more continues to pour from the tower.
Daisy puts her hand over Nullah's mouth.
The tracker walks slowly away as the windmill turns faster.
Daisy flounders and sinks beneath the surface.
Nullah notices and drops in after her.
She eyes him coldly.
He studies her and smiles.
The Drover rides up as they pull away.
In the tank.
Nullah brings Daisy to the surface.
As the truck drives away down the dusty road, Drover hauls Daisy's body from the tank.
Sarah sprints over.
Nullah desperately hugs his mother.
Drover hangs his head as Nullah clings to the body.
Bandy runs out of the house.
The cop's truck continues down the long, straight, dusty truck, into the vast scrub lands of Faraway Downs.
The windmill turns slowly at sunset.
Sarah looks tearfully out towards Daisy's blazing funeral pyre.
Smoke drifts from the top a rocky summit nearby.
Magarri signals to the hilltop.
He waves to King George who starts to chant.
The body is carried towards the fire.
The old man looks down on the homestead from his hilltop.
In the soft glow of dawn.
Sarah steps out of the house as Drover sits down on the fence and lights a cigarette.
She looks distraught.
He frowns and she avoids his gaze.
She walks to where Nullah is grieving.
He's lying curled up on the ground on a mattress.
She's completely at a loss.
She crouches down next to him and lays newspapers from a pile out on the ground to kneel on.
She kneels and thinks.
The nearest front page has an advert for a film.
He looks up and sees the smoke on the hilltop.
She looks perplexed.
He holds up his hand with a cloth tied around it.
She's not sure how to proceed.
He watches her expectantly.
She finishes with a self-deprecating flourish.
Her eyes fill with tears.
In the blazing sun.
Sarah faces Drover in the saddle.
Nullah looks up and a twister starts to form in the dust in front of the house.
He looks unconvinced.
Flynn salutes.
He eyeballs Sarah.
Bandy and Flynn node.
Sing Song winks.
Nullah grins.
Sing Song's chop wagon moves on as Drover opens the gate to the cattle pen.
Drover marshals his motley gang of riders as the huge herd moves out of the pen, raising a massive cloud of dust.
The army of cattle moves off.
King George follows their progress from his rocky mountain top.
The herd approaches a wide river.
Drover and Sarah ride ahead of the cattle.
The others ride behind and alongside, keeping them together.
Sing Song drives his wagon in to the water.
The crossing's successful.
Crowds fill an open-air cinema in nighttime Darwin.
Carney stares grimly.
He drops a curtain down between himself and Fletcher, who turns angrily away.
The drive moves on through the soft light of sunset.
hey approach a range of jagged vertical cliffs.
Sarah gapes open-mouthed at the soaring crags.
The herd moves towards a dark canyon.
Sheer cliffs rise up on either side of the canyon, the bottom of which is in shadow.
King George keeps watch from the top of the cliffs.
Four horsemen approach, riding line abreast.
A fire burns in the Drovers' camp.
Nullah's sitting on a rock.
Sarah's in her tent, writing.
Flynn stares at the boy.
Up on the cliff, King George makes a fire by drilling a stick into a piece of wood, and some kindling.
She sticks her tongue out at him as he closes his eyes.
King George looks up at the star-dusted sky.
As the sun comes up the horse men arrive on the rocky ridge.
 They look down in the cattle huddled in the canyon shadows.
Flynn takes his harmonica off Nullah.
Something has spooked the cattle.
Petrol from a metal can is sprinkled on the ground by Fletcher's men.
Fletcher gets off his horse, and the bearded Bull holds up a flaming torch.
He hurls it into the canyon.
King George observes from his perch.
Flynn and Nullah watch the torch falling through the darkness, and orange flames leap up as it hits the ground.
Cattle stampede as fire erupts behind them.
Drover clambers onto a rock and sees the herd thundering out of the canyon.
Behind the herd is a wall of flame.
Ahead of them, beyond the mouth of the canyon, is a sheer drop.
Drovers urge their horses on, desperately trying to get ahead of the herd.
They split into two groups, going either side of the herd.
Fletcher's crew follow on a path along the cliff above.
Nullah gallops along the cliff edge, heading the herd away from the precipice.
Nullah turns and grins at Flynn.
Cattle tumble into the abyss.
Flynn's eyes widen in fear as the cliff edge curves round in front of them.
They hurtle along with a sheer drop on one side and the mass of cattle on the other.
Up on the cliff, Fletcher urges his horse on.
Flynn rides next to Nullah on the cliff edge, showing off, riding one-handed.
Fletcher and his men stop and look down at the herd, which is now heading across open ground.
Fletcher gives a signal, and another fire is lit.
As a wall of flame appears in front of the herd, Flynn's horse trips and he's thrown off.
King George watches from a high outcrop.
The fire's cut the herd off from open ground, and is funneling them towards the cliff.
Nullah reins in his horse and looks towards Flynn, who's on the ground in the path of the stampede.
The other riders try to reach Flynn, who looks in terror towards the oncoming herd.
Nullah dashes towards him and Flynn is trampled the panicked animals.
Nullah winces at the sight and stands alone, facing the stampede, on the cliff edge.
In slow motion, the stampede gets closer.
Drover and Sarah urge their horses on.
Fletcher grins cruelly.
Nullah concentrates, and stretches out his arms.
His grandfather chants with him.
He's right on the cliff edge.
The herd slows and, just yards from the boy, comes to a stop.
King George looks down on the scene.
As Sarah and Drover arrive, Nullah starts to cry.
Sarah dismounts and grabs him just before he falls down into the abyss.
Drover grabs them both, and they fall backwards to safety.
Nullah stares up at Sarah.
He turns and nuzzles into her shoulder.
Drover stands awkwardly, and backs away from the pair.
King George smiles proudly.
Drover gallops to Flynn, lying twisted and bloody in the dust.
Drover places his ear close to the dying man's mouth to hear him.
Flynn's eyes flutter and close.
Drover frowns, and looks down at him.
Drover picks up his hat from next to the dead man and puts it on.
He looks at Flynn's harmonica which he's holding.
Nullah holds the harmonica, as Sarah sits in the smoking remnants of their camp.
He holds out one of her hats.
She looks embarrassed.
She drops the hat on the ground.
Her face creases with grief.
She stands and watches him.
Drover walks up beside her.
They look with determination into each other's eyes.
In the blazing sun, under a blue sky flecked with high white clouds, the drove continues.
Sarah rides confidently and brandishes the whip like an old -hand.
Nullah rounds up a lone steer which strays off.
They head towards the golden glow of the sunset.
Back at the cliff, Fletcher places a crocodile-skinned boot on the pile of rocks which is Flynn's grave.
He grabs a stone off the pile and toys with it, looking thoughtfully into the abyss as his men ride up.
A breeze blows Flynn's hat off the grave's wooden cross, as Fletcher stares towards the herd visible as a cloud of dust in the distance.
Drover's team set up camp by a river.
They all swig Poor Fella Rum from tin cups, except Drover, who swigs from the bottle.
It's strong stuff, but Sing Song and Sarah hold out their cups for more.
The empty bottle drops to the ground at the feet of a startled wallaby who sniffs at it.
Sarah gets up and goes over to the Drover, who's leaning against a tree.
They stop laughing, and look deeply into each other's eyes.
Very slowly, their faces draw closer.
Sarah closes her bright blue eyes, and very tenderly they kiss.
They stand next to each other guiltily, as Nullah climbs down from the tree.
Sarah stares at him curiously, as he moves pensively away from her.
She looks shocked.
He eyes her steadily.
He draws near her, and she looks up at him.
She smiles and looks downs at the ground.
He gives a tight smile and walks off.
She hesitates, then wanders through the long grass.
In daylight, a steer lies dead next to a watering hole.
Magarri checks the water.
Drover, Sarah and Nullah ride up.
Magarri looks thoughtful.
It's a great sandy desert.
Nullah rides up as they stand glumly at the watering hole.
Sarah stares at a solitary figure approaching across the dusty plain.
King George is standing on one leg, propped against his spear, staring at them through the swirling dust.
They approach him.
King George sings, jumps and dances with his spears against the flaming sky of sunset.
The cattle move agitatedly through the dust storm which engulfs the drove.
King George continues his singing.
Nullah dreams his grandfather finds water and catches a fish.
In the middle of the twilight desert, King George holds up a fish on a pole.
He stands chanting, his long hair, beard and body caked in dust.
Carney offers a pen to the captain.
Fletcher hangs up the phone in the cattle pen as the captain pauses over a purchase agreement.
The women in the salon watch in wonder as a calf wanders past the window.
The building starts to shake as the captain signs the agreement.
Sweating in the oppressive Darwin heat, he looks up as the drove thunders into town.
Carney frowns and the salon women stare in awe as the street fills with cattle.
Carney peers through the slats of his sun-blinds as Sarah rides up.
Carney glares at him.
They turn their horses and gallop off.
Carney dives for the phone.
Fletcher stares in angry disbelief as the Drover jumps his horse into the holding yard.
Drover rides through the yard, cracking his whip as Fletcher frantically tries to organize his team.
The gates out of the pen are closed in front of Drover, and the gate to the wooden loading tunnel raised.
Cattle stream into it as Sarah rides toward the docks at the head of her herd.
Sarah's herd rumbles on as the laughing Carney men urge their charges into the loading tunnel which runs down the wharf.
Drover thinks for a moment, then rides off.
He jumps the fence around the yard, knocking out the top slat, and rides into the street outside the Territory Hotel.
Fletcher glares at him.
Drover looks across at the Carney herd being loaded.
He rides towards the large cargo vessel at the end of the wharf.
A wooden loading tunnel leads right to it.
As Fletcher stares, policemen emerge from their office.
Administrator Allsop looks down his telescope.
Drover gallops through Carney's men and cuts the rope holding up the gate at the end of the tunnel.
It drops closed, trapping the cattle inside.
Drover cracks his whip as Sarah's cattle thunder down the wharf.
Townspeople cheer her on as she rides past the hotel.
The cattle are streaming onto a ship.
Nullah rides up to Sarah.
She nods and smiles triumphantly as Nullah rides behind the last of the herd.
She catches Fletcher's eye.
They glare at each other, and she rides towards him.
He looks nervous, then blinks as she cracks her whip right in front of his face.
She rides off, eyeballing him with a grin.
Nullah chases the last steer onto the ship.
Drover escorts Sarah to the pub through the cheering mob.
She smiles with pride as two glasses are placed on the bar, and filled with Poor Fella Rum.
They down the powerful brew, gasping at the strength.
They laugh, staring into each other's eyes.
Fletcher answers the phone at the holding yard.
Carney glares down at him from the veranda of his house.
Fletcher stands, shoulders slumped, by the phone.
Sarah, with tears of joy in her eyes, throws her arms around Drover.
Drover exercises Capricornia in a small yard.
Sarah steps out on the balcony above, and watches him nuzzle the horse affectionately.
She makes her way downstairs.
He gets the mare to lie down.
Sarah watches in amazement.
He looks round, startled.
He frowns and turns away.
He breaks eye contact, and nods thoughtfully.
He looks her in the eye and walks off, leaving her uncomfortable and disappointed.
Nullah's sitting glumly by a cooking fire with Sing Song and Bandy Legs.
She dips her fingers in ash.
She smears black ash on his cheek, and smiles.
A man watches nearby.
He looks at her with his big eyes.
Sitting downstairs in the black section of the audience with Sing Song.
 Bandy turns and looks up at the black Nullah.
Sitting in the rafters near the projector, he watches wide- eyed.
Everyone turns and stares as Carney swigs from a wine bottle.
He approaches Sarah, who plonks his bottle on a waiter's tray.
He holds out his hand.
She eyes him warily.
Sarah frowns as King, smiling broadly, leads her to the dance floor.
Fletcher watches from the punchbowl.
A photographer takes their picture.
She sits and stares, thinking hard.
Allsop pauses and stares.
Everyone in the garden turns and looks up at the house.
Sarah turns round and gasps, standing and staring.
At the top of the steps leading to the garden, clean-shaven and wearing a white tuxedo, is the Drover.
They stare at each other and she smiles breathlessly.
Drover smiles suavely at her, and she grins broadly.
Allsop signals to the band.
Drover makes his way down the steps towards the teeming dance floor.
He and Sarah move slowly towards each other.
She smiles in delighted disbelief and he grins, his hand casually in his left pocket, as they come together.
She smiles demurely.
Arm-in-arm, they head for the dance floor.
Carney's wife and the other women stare at them.
Up on a balcony, Fletcher grabs a black waitress' hand.
Sarah helps him through the steps.
Carney watches and swigs from a bottle.
Up on the balcony, Fletcher does the same.
Carney watches the dance, laughing heartily and drinks deeply.
Drover and Sarah dance cheek-to-cheek.
She smiles and nods.
In the night, lightning flashes over Darwin Wharf.
He looks at her seriously.
She turns and looks up at the storm clouds then closes her eyes, tilting her face up to catch the rain.
They kiss as it starts to pour down.
The crowds at the pub cheer the rain's arrival and dance in the street.
At the outdoor theater, the audience leave their seats.
All except Nullah, who continues to stare, transfixed, at the screen.
The ball guests huddle on the colonnaded verandah of the house where Carney holds court.
People dance around Drover and Sarah in the rain-soaked street.
Sarah holds her hands joyfully in the air.
Goolaj remains in his seat at the theater smiling happily at the down pour.
Smiling, Fletcher staggers towards the soaking dance floor, trips over a plant pot and falls flat on his face.
Sarah kisses Drover.
Carney steps away from his daughter to approach Fletcher.
Sarah and Drover continue to kiss passionately.
Their eyes lock together, but closes the cab door rather then get in.
A servant holds an umbrella over Carney's head as he walks up to the fallen Fletcher.
He scowls at his drunken son-in-law and walks off.
Fletcher nods slowly, watching him go.
On the screen, Dorothy clicks her emerald heels together.
Drover and Sarah run up the stairs to Sarah's room with the balcony.
Indoors, they kiss passionately.
They break apart and stare at one another.
They look longingly at each other.
Naked in bed, they make love tenderly.
He kisses her neck.
They touch gently.
He slides the dress off her shoulders and she opens the front of his shirt.
She pulls the shirt off his muscled torso and, in just her petticoat, pulls him down onto the bed.
They lie in each other's arms, naked, covered by just a sheet.
The door to the room swings closed, as lightning flashes and the rain pours down on nighttime Darwin.
Birds take flight over a land which has turned green.
The dusty plains have been replaced by rivers, lakes and islands.
Waterfalls tumble down the rocks of the previously dry canyon.
Sarah and Drover are bathing in a pool in each other's arms.
Nullah jumps in
They all dine happily outside in the evening twilight.
Sarah and Drover stand together in each other's arms, kissing.
Sarah watches him ride away.
A herd of horses thunders past the house, driven by Drover.
He sprints up to Sarah, waiting on the porch, and launches himself into her arms.
They kiss passionately.
Fletcher knocks Carney into a swamp with his rifle and a crocodile attacks the cattle king.
At sunset, Drover, in the saddle, leans down and kisses Sarah.
The house and neat, colorful gardens of Faraway Downs are bathed in sunshine.
A figure in crocodile boots ties cotton around a fly.
Fletcher's sitting with a boot up on the dining table.
Sarah stares at him in dismay.
He sidles up and whispers to her.
He points to a display of spears.
She frowns as he leaves.
Bandy comes slowly back into the room.
Sarah turns anxiously to her.
Nullah stands up on top of a water tower.
Sarah watches his arrival from the verandah.
He stops his horse, checks his herd, then gallops off.
She wakes up in bed, frowns and then looks across at Drover lying next to her and smiles, running a hand down his bearded cheek.
She runs a hand down his hairy, muscular chest.
A wild horse is ridden, bucking, around a training ring.
He frowns at the boy.
Nullah cowers behind a gate.
Drover watches him go, followed by his dog.
He frowns thoughtfully.
Drover trims his beard.
Sarah's sitting in the bath.
She looks upset.
She listens sullenly.
She frowns and he stands expressionlessly on the verandah.
Birds fly over a rocky hill and Drover works a brumby in the paddock.
He whirls a lariat as the wild horse canters around him.
He launches the rope, which slips around the horse's neck.
The brumby bucks wildly, trying to get away.
Bandy heats a brand in the fire.
She runs and passes it to Sarah, who brands a steer, which is being held down.
Nullah, minding the horses, looks up and sees his grandfather, waiting for him.
He and the old man exchange hand gestures.
In the paddock, Drover works the wild horse, hauling on the rope to prevent it from bucking.
Nullah looks at Sarah.
He looks into her eyes, then across at his grandfather.
The Brumby trots towards Drover, who holds out his hand to it.
Holding on to Nullah, Sarah looks around.
The plain behind her is empty.
Nullah stares into the distance.
Sarah rides up to the house.
Drover comes out the back door.
She freezes, keeping her back to him.
On the porch, he turns slowly and looks at her.
He walks towards Magarri and the horses, as her eyes fill with tears.
She whirls round and goes back indoors, as he rides away.
Nullah's dog attacks a cop whose chasing him.
He turns slowly and looks into the eyes of a half-naked black tracker.
Callahan finds Fletcher at the movies.
King George is flung into cell, as Nullah is dragged away.
Sarah drives through crowds on the wharf.
Troopships crowd Darwin harbor.
Nullah is with a group of half-caste children being shipped out.
His grandfather hears in his cell.
Sarah drives past lines of marching troops.
Nullah stares at the white boy.
Troops and civilians swarm towards the wharf.
Sarah stops at a barrier and gets out of the car.
Callahan drags the white boy away, as a priest pulls Nullah.
Crocodile boots stop in front of him and Nullah looks up into Fletcher's face.
Sarah barges her way anxiously through the crowd on the wharf.
Smoke rises from ships' funnels.
The priest leads him to a waiting boat.
Fletcher observes, slyly.
She runs down the wharf, as Nullah runs to the stern of the boat.
The small boat pulls out of the shadow of the huge liners evacuating the town.
The boy looks up at Sarah.
Fletcher grins.
Nullah waves to Sarah, who stops at the end of the wharf.
Fletcher leans on the railing next to her, as the boat sails away.
He turns smugly to her.
He grins and saunters off.
On the back of the boat, Nullah turns and looks up at a priest.
Sarah leans on the wharf rail in despair, trying to control her sobs.
The children's boat sails away from the wharf between huge, grey navy vessels.
A Japanese fighter skims through the clouds towards an island.
Sarah steps out onto the balcony and looks out over the harbor.
He looks across at Drover, who's standing thoughtfully by a tree.
As he whistles, Magarri stares at Drover, who looks uncomfortable and tentatively lays his hand on the tree.
Magarri turns away and tears fill the Drover's eyes.
Their vehicles raise a cloud of dust on the other side of the river they are camping next to.
Clouds fill the sky.
Fighters take off at dawn from an aircraft carrier.
Mission Island sits peacefully in the grey sea, beneath the cloudy sky.
The children are asleep in their dormitory.
Nullah wakes up with a start.
Smiling unpleasantly, Fletcher hangs up the phone in his office overlooking the whole of Darwin.
Drover, Magarri and Goolaj gallop across a plain.
The Japanese fighters fly over Mission Island.
One dives down towards it.
Squatting in his cell, King George raises his head and looks up.
On the beach on the island, Nullah looks skywards.
Four planes peel away from the mass of fighters and swoop towards him.
Sarah walks into the army operations room.
She looks at Cath with concern.
Nullah continues to stare at the planes.
King George stands in his cell.
The planes dive towards the children on the beach.
Nullah's eyes widen with fear and he sprints across the beach as bombs fall on the Mission.
A priest hurries to the radio hut.
A plane targets the hut.
As the bomb obliterates the radio shack, King George looks out through the barred window of his cell.
Fletcher signs the contract to buy Faraway Downs.
He turns and walks out onto the balcony surrounding his office at the top of a high clock tower.
Dutton pauses, hearing the noise.
Fighters appear in the sky over Darwin.
On his balcony, Fletcher watches the approaching black dots in the air.
Planes peel off from the formation to start their attack.
Sarah stands up and slowly removes her headset as she stares out of the window.
A bomb explodes just outside the window.
Sarah is engulfed in smoke, flame and flying glass.
The planes, with the red rising sun on their wings, swoop and dive across the town, as soldiers desperately try to get organized.
A bomb bursts outside the prison and fire billows into King George's cell.
Captain Dutton bellows orders and the policemen let prisoners out of their cells.
Soldiers climb into a truck and King George walks out of the prison.
As the soldiers stand helpless in their truck and smoke billows over the town, King George walks slowly out through the burning prison gates.
A bomb scores a direct hit on a ship.
Fire and black smoke erupt from the superstructure.
Pillars of fire leap skywards as the bombs fall.
King George stands and watches the destruction rage all around him.
The old magic-man stares around impassively at the plumes of fire and bomb bursts.
The planes continue to completely obliterate the town.
The Drover and Magarri sit on their horses amid the smoke and blazing buildings.
Drover stares in shock at the carnage.
Fires blaze in the darkness and a pall of smoke covers the town.
The burning building collapses, as they ride to find Sarah.
The Carney house is ablaze, with firefighters vainly trying to tackle it.
 Drovers eyes widen in horror.
A group of men restrain Drover from walking into the blaze.
Captain Dutton looks in shock at the stretcher his men brought in.
Drover staggers, distraught, through the burning wreck of the Carney house, sobbing in uncontrollable grief.
The flickering flames illuminate the calm figure of King George, as others mill around trying to help.
Drover walks through the town.
King George shadows him.
He looks out across the bay at the broken, burning hulks of ships.
He walks towards the shattered pub.
Some people are trying to patch it up.
Others sit around staring or drinking vacantly.
He approaches Ivan, who's sweeping up in the bar.
Magarri follows him.
Drover looks around, taking in the white drinkers and his nervous black brother-in-law, then turns slowly back to Ivan.
Ivan stares, as tears of grief and rage run down his face.
The bar patrons stare as he looks round at Magarri.
Magarri enters tentatively, removing his hat, and approaches the bar.
A woman glares at him, drawing on a cigarette, the tip glowing in the gloom.
Ivan has placed a glass and a tin cup on the bar.
Tears roll down Drover's cheeks.
Reluctantly, Ivan replaces the cup with another glass.
Ivan looks at Magarri and raises a glass.
Magarri eyeballs him and glances at Drover.
They all take a drink.
The empty glasses are placed on the bar.
Magarri wipes away a tear.
Drover frowns in disbelief.
Dutton checks the body on the stretcher.
Sarah comes in.
His eyes bore into her, trying to make her understand.
A priest is down at the wharf.
Drover releases the mooring, taking a chain out of Bull's unconscious hand, and runs onto the small Mission Island sailing boat.
The priest prays.
Magarri holds a rifle and Drover stands holding a rope, as they get underway.
She stares, grief-stricken, at the devastation.
The wooden buildings of the Mission burn fiercely in the night.
Drover, Magarri and Ivan stand staring on the beach.
He nods to Magarri, who moves off.
Drover, fearful of what he might find, moves slowly up the beach.
Weapons raised, they pass burning buildings and approach the tree line.
Drover looks into a building and sees a row of boys' shoes.
He looks horrified and lowers his rifle.
His eyes fill with tears.
He turns towards the noise, raising his rifle.
Something is moving in the undergrowth.
A boy emerges.
Drover lowers his weapon, as more children come out of the undergrowth.
He smiles with relief, as Magarri beckons the boys forward.
Another figure with long hair appears.
They embrace, throwing their arms around one another.
Drover holds the boy out at arm's length and grins happily, stroking his hair.
Nullah hangs his head sadly.
A torch beam sweeps across the water towards them.
They look around fearfully, as armed figures march out of the jungle through the smoke.
As the boys run pell-mell into the water, the Japanese soldiers advance past the Mission buildings.
The refugees pick their way through the ruins of the Mission's wooden jetty.
The Japanese are searching the buildings on the beach.
He walks off, leaving Drover standing with the children.
Magarri runs through the shallows with his rifle.
The boys move out beyond the end of the burning jetty and start to swim.
The Japanese run down to the beach.
Magarri loads and hides behind one of the wharf's supports.
Magarri gasps in fear, as the soldiers approach.
The boys use a piece of driftwood as a float.
The soldiers follow footprints down the beach.
Magarri takes aim.
Drover and the boys arrive at the boat.
They climb the ladder as soldiers fire at Magarri, who shoots back.
As Magarri reloads, he looks across at Drover and the boys climbing onto the boat.
He looks round at the soldiers getting closer.
He drops his rifle and sprints up the beach to distract the Japanese.
Drover gasps as Magarri, hit in the back, falls to the sand.
He and the boys stare helplessly, as the soldiers run up to the wounded man.
The soldiers raise their rifles and an officer cocks his pistol.
Magarri looks towards the boat.
Drover and the boys watch as the soldiers move away from the body.
The sail is raised and Ivan gets slowly to his feet.
Flames roar into the air and King George, watching the soldiers work in the ruin, rubs dye into his cheeks.
The soldiers move slowly through the flaming, smoking ruins of Darwin.
Hoses spray water on the fires.
Captain Dutton gets out of the truck.
In her wrecked room over the pub, Sarah looks at a photograph of her, Nullah and Drover.
She looks tearfully down at Dutton issuing orders on the wharf.
His eyes fill with tears of self-pity.
Bomb ships burn in the bay.
Dutton comes up to Sarah's room.
Eyes closed, tears roll down her cheeks.
The boys' boat sails into Darwin.
Men clamber into trucks, ready to evacuate south.
The small boat sails past a huge burning ship.
Sarah tearfully watches the evacuation.
A black soldier stands stripped to the waist, watching the trucks.
Sarah looks at the ruins of the Territory Hotel and sighs.
As she climbs into the truck, the small boat sails into view by the wharf.
King George is up on the wreck of the Carney Cattle Company water tower.
Nullah reaches into his pocket and pulls out Flynn's harmonica.
Sarah hesitates by the truck, Listening.
Shocked, she turns to Dutton.
Drover strokes the lad's hair as he plays.
The priest conducts the choir.
Drover stands at the stern of the boat.
She runs down the peer as the boat draws alongside.
Nullah and Sarah peer through the smoke.
The boy stands up on the prow of the boat and grins.
He jumps up and down excitedly and runs off the boat onto the jetty.
He runs up the wooden steps to the upper level of the wharf
and sprints through the smoke towards Sarah.
Nullah points and she turns slowly.
There in the smoke stands the Drover.
Their eyes meet and they walk slowly towards one another.
Drover frowns in disbelief, then smiles and they embrace.
They cling to each other tears running down their cheeks
They break apart and look joyfully at one another, then kiss.
Nullah runs up and hugs them both.
Drover grins happily.
The army sergeant sounds the horn of his truck and smiles.
Dutton stops and stares at Sarah, Drover and the boys.
He's taken aback by her hug.
The sergeant stomps up to the young priest.
Fletcher grimly watches the boys, streaming towards the trucks.
Sarah rests her head on Drover's shoulder and caresses his cheek.
Dutton turns to them.
Dutton smiles tearfully.
He nods and walks away.
Fletcher strides angrily towards the truck the boys are getting into.
Dutton's the last on.
The tailgate is raised and the trucks head off.
Fletcher runs through the devastation, watched from the water tower by King George.
Sarah's walking with Nullah.
King George looks in horror, as Fletcher grabs Bull's rifle.
King George raises his arms in his magic-man stance, as Fletcher advances with the rifle.
King George watches Fletcher closely.
Sarah smiles, as Nullah runs towards the pub.
Fletcher stands on top of a pile of wreckage and aims the rifle.
Sarah spots the danger and, at the pub, Drover sees Fletcher.
Drover runs for the boy.
King George pulls a pipe off the water tower.
Fletcher grimaces and Drover falls to the ground with Nullah.
King George's pipe has run Fletcher through like a spear.
King George glares at him.
Drover strokes his hair.
The unconscious boy's eyes flicker.
Nullah grins.
Fletcher tries to aim the rifle at King George.
Fletcher winces and drops the rifle.
Sarah reaches Drover and Nullah.
Fletcher tries to speak and then collapses over a piece of wreckage.
Sarah cuddles Nullah.
Sergeant Callahan checks Fletcher's pulse.
Sarah and Drover gaze into each other's eyes.
They kiss, tenderly.
Callahan walks away from Fletcher's body, across the wrecked King Carney cattle pen.
Smoke hangs in palls over the destruction of Darwin.
Drover drives the car in the sunshine, with Sarah and Nullah asleep next to him.
Sarah picks up kindling for a fire in a field next to a river.
She straightens and stares.
She drops the sticks and hurries across the field.
Drover stands up, holding a water bag.
Sarah joins Nullah, who's holding sticks and staring out at his grandfather, who's waiting on the grassy plain.
The old man and the boy gaze at each other.
King George signals to Nullah to join him.
The boy turns to the apprehensive Sarah.
She reaches out and they embrace.
King George watches patiently.
Nullah looks up at Sarah and she crouches down to him.
Drover approaches them.
Nullah looks at him.
He holds Sarah's hands, then breaks away.
He turns back, takes off his checked shirt and hands it to her.
He takes off his shoes and throws them away.
Then, in just his shorts, he grins and runs to his grandfather.
Drover watches him with pride.
The old man puts his arm around him and starts his stories.
He reaches out towards Sarah.
Sarah blinks back tears.
Nullah watches her as he walks away.
King George and Nullah walk hand-in-hand across the grassy plain, towards the mountains in the distance.
Over the sound of Adolph Hitler addressing a rally.
Grainy black and white footage shows him.
With his arm extended at an angle of degrees from his shoulder.
Giving the Nazi salute.
As he reviews troops.
A Nazi motorcade approaches a curved metal bridge.
A skull and crossbones on a black flag flutters in the breeze.
A man is dragged across the street.
Others, identifying labels on their backs.
They're hounded along by Nazi officers.
Jews are shot to the ditch.
Women, cowering, are pushed from their home.
One woman falls to the ground and is dragged to her feet.
Old men in cloth caps and bags on their shoulders.
Women carrying cases are herded from their village.
Black uniformed SS officers kick a man on the ground.
A helmeted German shoots a man in the back.
An officer coolly pulls a revolver from an inside pocket and raises it.
A young man falls lifelessly to the ground.
The officer pockets his gun and resumes his conversation.
An army photographer is filming the event.
small children are Hauled up into trucks.
Families are separated.
The bony cheek SS officer puffs on a cigarette as a truckload of people trundles past.
The departing truck, escorted by Nazi outriders, is being observed by two men hiding behind a tree.
In his 30s, the other in his early Near them, they see men from the village being led in to a wood by black-shirts and their dogs.
The two watchers run from the scene
A body lies face-down in a marshy pond.
They run past and vault over a farm gate.
A man lies slumped against the farm fence.
The younger man, Asael, drops his head.
He is breathing heavy.
He helplessly looks up at his older brother, Zus.
Carrying a small axe, tall, dark-haired, unshaven Zus creeps across the farmhouse.
He opens a low door.
He steps inside,
crouches down,
and pulls back two planks from the floor.
A small boy with blackened face and hands peers up at his two older brothers.
Warily, the boy takes Zus' hand,
and steps up out of the hole in the floor.
Zus pats the boy's blackened face.
Moments later, Asael drapes a cloth bag over Aron's shoulder.
Zus puts down the saw he's carrying, noticing something in the doorway of the farmhouse.
He removes a narrow ornamental case engraved with Hebrew writing, a mezuzah, from the right-hand side of the door frame.
He grabs the saw and a cloth bag, hurries his little brother away, past a flock of ducks.
Zus hold his brother to his Feet and leans him up against a tree.
Zus pats Azael's neck, and for a moment rests his head against his brother's brow.
Aron, sitting with his legs drawn up in front of him, slowly gets up to his feet, and throws the cloth bundle over his shoulder.
Dark green conifers stretch as far as the eye can see.
A man strides through the undergrowth and comes across Asael lying asleep by a tree with Aron in his arms.
The stone-faced man in his late thirties, in a cloth cap and a brown leather jacket over heavy wool trousers, picks up a stone and tosses it onto the ground.
Asael wakes up.
He gets to his feet.
Tuvia grabs him roughly
The two brothers hug fiercely.
Tuvia beckons to their youngest brother, and all three stand locked in a hug.
Zus appears carrying kindling.
Tuvia nods bitterly
as Zus fishes in his pocket, and brings out the mezuzah.
He tosses it to Tuvia,
then drops the kindling to the ground.
As Zus starts snapping the twigs, Tuvia glances at the Hebrew markings on the mezuzah, and hugs Aron even more tightly.
Zus hands Tuvia some vodka.
The four of them huddle together in the pouring rain.
Aron sits with a coat on his head listening quietly.
They have a little fire near to a stream.
Tuvia crouches down next to Zus who is the tallest of the three adults.
Elsewhere in the forest ants scurry over a mound of twigs.
Aron pushes a stick into the mud with a curious expression and watches several ants climb onto it.
He brings the stick closer to him and studies their movements.
He reels around and spotss a female figure running through the trees some distance away.
He gets to his feet
and starts to run after her.
He stops between two silver birch trees and watches the teen girl run towards a gray bearded man in a Homburg hat, shirt and waistcoat and suit trousers sitting on a log with a little girl in his arms.
Aron looks in another direction and sees a young man accompanying an old woman.
From behind more trees, a man in a black hat and black overcoat with a smartly dressed woman in a stylish bearing.
Clutching his stick, Aron steps towards a mud ditch in the middle of a clearing.
The long winding ditch is full of dead bodies piled on top of each other.
Aron's eyes fill with horror.
His brothers are sitting around the fire.
Zus and Tuvia look at each other.
Aron has brought the old man and the child.
Tuvia lays the child down near the fire.
Zus armed with a rifle watches the other people arrive.
He and Tuvia glance at each other in mute surprise.
The old man weeps and strokes the little girl's glossy dark hair.
Tuvia's hardened eyes flicker as he looks up Aron and the people he has brought.
Some of them biting hungrily on mounds of hard bread.
Zus standing nearby looks uneasy.
He beckons to his older brother to join him out of the earshot of the others.
Tuvia sets off leaving Zus looking unconvinced.
In a dimly lit cottage, as Tuvia pours out two vodkas.
A dark haired Russian sits down at his table.
He places a gun on the table and Tuvia takes it.
Tuvia glancing at the wife's hostile face,
pockets the bullets
and tucks the gun into his belt.
The wife is chopping meat.
The men clink glasses, pours some away and down the rest.
Tuvia bites into a piece of bread.
She ignores him.
Tuvia cracks a smile.
A beam of light shines through the window.
As Tuvia dives out of the back door.
The wife quickly removes the glasses from the table.
Tuvia climbs up into Koscik's barn where half a dozen people are already hiding.
An official car draws up.
Its headlights blazing.
Koscik holding the vodka bottle is standing outside his cottage.
Koscik handing over the bottle.
He gulps back some vodka.
Someone coughs in the barn.
Bernicki passes the bottle to a colleague.
In the barn, Tuvia takes out the gun.
He gulps back some more vodka.
Bielski's eyes bulge, and he holds a finger at Koscik's head like a pistol.
He pats Koscik on the cheek and goes.
Berniscki and the two young men with him go back to their car.
Tuvia, in the barn, sighs with relief.
Outside Koscik hands out clothing to the Jews who were hiding.
Tuvia watches uneasily.
Koscik gives him a bottle and a loaf of rye bread.
Koscik's soulful dark eyes look at Tuvia with compassion and he nods.
The two friends shake hands and Tuvia strides past the little group of Jews who watch him uncertainly.
He glances over his shoulder without slowing down,
they hurry after him in the forest.
Early the next morning one of the Jews comes up behind Tuvia.
guy in a smart hat and coat leans against a tree to get his breath back.
Later, the extended group are having a meal.
A girl bites into a piece of fruit and passes it to her neighbor.
The women in the beret takes a ladle full of soup and passes the pot to Shimon the school teacher.
He takes a ladle full and passes it to Aron who sits next to Asael.
Zus is chopping at a tree.
Tuvia standing nearby sees the old man bearing his daughter.
Zus ties some rope and goes.
Tuvia walks up a leafy slope towards the old man filling the grave with earth.
At night in pouring rain with the collar of his jacket pulled up, Tuvia stands staring at a cottage in the clearing, his lips pursed.
Inside Berniski, his wife and two sons who were with him at Koscik's house, are having dinner.
They all look Towards the door as Tuvia walks into the room.
Berniscki jumps up
Tuvia draws the gun.
Berniski shrugs lamely.
Cowering Berniscki sinks to his knees.
One son stands up
Tuvia dispatches both sons then Berniscki.
Then Berniski dies.
Tuvia looks at the woman without remorse as she mourns before him.
Her hands splattered with blood.
He goes.
stumbling Through the dark forest.
Makes his escape.
At dawn Zus sleeping in a makeshift tent, awakes with a start.
A bottle of vodka by his legs.
Groggily he looks at the sleeping people all around him.
Picking up the bottle, he staggers to his feet.
Then notices smoke from a small fire.
Tuvia siting broodily starring into the space
Zus hands his brother the bottle.
Tuvia takes a slug.
And Zus examines the revolver.
Counting the number of bullets.
A fleeting smile passes between them.
Zus hands back the gun
Sharpening a spear, Zus looks up in surprise as Tuvia comes back to the camp with more refugees.
A pretty brunette walks by and gives Tuvia a long look.
Later two men are sawing a log,
Later, another lays branches onto the roof of a shelter.
Zus hammers a beam.
Malbin, hammering a nail, drops the log he's holding narrowly missing Zus.
Malbin turns to Tuvia.
Zus frowns.
The girl with a beret.
Lazar and Laila walk off.
everyone looks around.
Two young men enter the camp, one wielding a rifle.
Zus puts his hands up.
The brothers stiffen.
Zus eyes them steadily.
Peretz meets his gaze and slowly shakes his head.
Zus walks away, stumbling into the undergrowth.
He throws up by a tree and sinks to his knees.
Tuvia follows him and watches his brother convulsing with grief.
Zus bangs his head against the tree trunk.
Tuvia grabs him from behind and wrestles him to the ground.
Blood seeps from the wound on Zus' head.
He frees himslef from his brother's grasp.
The two newcomers, Peretz and Jacov, are talking to Asael.
Tuvia runs off to Zus.
Tuvia looks at Asael who averts his gaze and then back at Zus.
A full moon gleams in the dark sky.
Zus shoots the man.
Zus shouts.
An elderly Russian runs out to his blazing truck.
Zus dispatches him.
Together with Tuvia, Asael, Peretz, and Jacov, he tosses the old man's body into the burning bed of the truck.
A pin prick of light punctures the darkness.
Peretz running along a dirt track joins the others hiding in a ditch.
Tuvia throws out some wire across the track.
A German motorbike comes into view.
The brothers watch it plow into the wire.
The Bielskis swarm towards the German soldier sprawled on the ground.
They relieve the dead man of his weapon and rifle through his saddle bags.
A car's headlights appear in the distance.
Zus and the others pick up the body,
carry it to the side of the road
and toss it down into the wood.
They take up their positions and watch the car draw nearer.
The driver gets out of the open-topped car to investigate the obstacle in the road.
Driver peers to the side of the road near to where Zus and the others are hiding.
The two Germans in the car and their female companion light up.
The driver opens his fly and takes a leak all over Zus who tries to protect his face with his hands.
The driver spots him.
Zus stabs him.
The other Germans are ambushed from behind.
The sergeant shoots blindly into the darkness.
Asael and others chase after a private.
Zus unleashes a machinegun fire
Asael chases after the fleeing private and brings him down.
Zus finishes up the Germans in the car.
Asael shoots his prey point blank.
The group examine the weapons they have collected.
More headlights appear in the distance.
shining Their beams straight at them.
The brothers line up and open fire into the dazzling light.
Peretz is hit.
Asael recoups more guns and runs into a field.
Tuvia helps Peretz to his feet and pulls him away from the line of fire.
He picks up another rifle and dashes into the bushes.
An armored vehicle drives up.
Soldiers jump off the back and run after Asael who's haring across a field.
Tuvia' and pretz stop by and watch the truck slowing down.
A search light on its route picks out Asael running across the field.
Armed Germans go after Asael, but their bullets whiz past him.
The heavy search light is on ground and picks out Tuvia, who fires straight at it, destroying the bulb.
Asael pursued like an animal.
He and Zus gather up their armory of guns and run.
The next morning at their camp, sandy-haired Tuvia looks across at Zus with fury in his pale blue eyes.
Laila is scraping the bottom of a cooking pot with a ladle.
Shimon in his hat, coat, and woolen scarf, watches her grimly.
Others in the camp look pale and gaunt.
Aron, chewing on a piece of bread, hands it to Rachel, the teenage girl,
and she devours it.
Tuvia turns to Malbin, who's sitting with Peretz, whose eyes are open, but lifeless.
Malbin shakes his head.
A thin hollowed cheek man wanders towards them.
Both Zus and Tuvia scramble to their feet and point their weapons.
Zus runs after Lazar.
Tuvia leaves Zus on the ground where he pushed him.
The tall stranger addresses him.
All eyes are on Tuvia
With his machine gun over his shoulder, he takes a step backwards and surveys the group, his face angry and dismayed.
He glances across at Zus, who is skulking by a tree.
Everyone turns to young Aron.
Tuvia's tough expression weakens, and his thin lips tremble.
Zus looks from Aron to Tuvia, waiting for a response.
Tuvia tries to compose his face.
He steps towards Aron and cradles his head in his arms.
Aron wraps his arms around his big brother.
Later hiding in some woodland with Zus and Benzion by his side.
Tuvia appears through binoculars at Koscik's farmhouse.
The three of them step towards it.
Koscik's wife is in the garden hanging up washing.
The three partisans armed with rifles come past a flock of geese on their way to the barn.
Nearing the door, they stop as a pair of legs comes into view.
Koscik is hanging from a rafter, with a wooden sign around his neck,
Zus bangs a cross into the ground.
Tuvia, holding a shovel, steps away from Koscik's newly dug grave.
Her long, black skirt trailing on the ground, she leads the three men to a haystack,
where Tuvia and Zus open the trapdoor.
They peer down into a shelter and smile.
The brothers help Asael out into the sunshine,
Zus gives him a bear hug.
Rifles.
Two women climbed, one a teenager, the other in her Zus leads Bella and Chaya away.
Tuvia thanks Koscik's widow.
He runs after the others.
At the camp Shimon and Malvin are shoving earth.
The intellectuals shrug and get on with their digging.
Asael is intently looking at the blond teenager.
Tuvia gives Chaya a friendly wave.
Asael strolls down to Chaya and Tuvia cracks a rare smile.
An elderly Russian in a horse drawn cart trundles along the dirt track.
Zus with his machine gun steps out in front of him.
Asael and Ben Zion step out.
Zus smiles doubtfully.
Later, wearing the man's coat and carrying two churns, Zus leads the way back through the woods.
a man approaches Chaya.
at dusk, Benzion comes up to Tuvia who is sitting by a fire, reading.
Tuvia's rugged face stiffens.
Benzion nods respectfully and leaves Tuvia alone.
A young boy plays the violin.
People in the camp sit quietly
Sadness and loss etched on their faces.
Asael watches Chaya from a distance.
At the bottom of a leaf strewn slope Tuvia stands alone by a stream grieving.
Bella walks up to Zus who is sitting on a log.
Her dark hair cut short and wearing a grey wool coat, she sits down on the log.
And they exchange a brief smile.
Zus offers her a sip from his hip flask.
She meets his playful expression with a shrug, and then a smile.
She takes the flask and drinks from it.
He looks, then lowers his eyes.
His dark eyes hold her in his gaze, and she nods faintly.
This time, she looks Zus straight in the eye.
Tentatively, he raises his hand and touches her cheek with his fingers, gently pulling at her bottom lip with his thumb.
She takes hold of his hand with her hand and places it on her right breast, discretely covering his hand with a coat and holding his gaze.
Elsewhere, Aron and his friend, Rachel, tramp through the spindly birch trees.
In the distance, they spot Kissely the milkman running ahead of a unit of armed men in black uniforms.
The two youngsters dive behind a rock.
Zus and Tuvia, their guns up and ready, urge the men and women to flee.
And Benzion in a fur hat leads them across a shallow stream.
Kissely and the policemen with guns arrive at the camp.
One of the Bielski group carries a goat across the stream.
A woman stumbles and falls into the water.
Zus helps her up.
Carrying bags and baskets, the people scramble up a slope.
Tuvia and other men with guns scoot back down the hill to take up positions behind trees.
The Russian policemen and helmeted soldiers come into view below them.
Zus, Tuvia, and the others fire.
One wounded soldier is helped away from the stream.
The bearded milkman cowers behind a tree.
Zus stops to reload.
The policeman looks back at his half a dozen men.
Zus hits the milkman's arm.
Tuvia unleashes a salvo of bullets.
The policeman skulking behind a tree calls to his men to go.
Tuvia watches them retreating through the trees.
He and the others stride forward in a line.
And Zus reloads.
Tuvia's cheeks tighten as he ponders his brother's words, but he runs off after the others.
The displaced community of men, women, and children clutching their bundles of possessions.
Some in hats and coats.
Others in flat caps and jackets.
Many of the women with shawls on their heads tramp through the forest, dwarfed by the tall, thin, bare trees.
They come out onto a meadow of tall grasses wafting in the breeze.
Walking almost in single file, like black shadows moving across the landscape.
Tuvia and Ben Zion, Behind them Zus with Bella by his side, Lead the way out of the wood.
at a rest stop an old woman wrapped in a heavy shawl chews on some food.
A man bites into an apple.
Asael and Chaya sit together.
People huddled on the ground look up at Tuvia, but only Zus stands up, draping his machine gun over his shoulder.
Tuvia nods, and the two of them set off, both wearing caps and scarves wrapped around their necks.
A Russian in a gray army coat and fur hat steps out from behind a tree.
Soldiers surround the Bielski brothers.
They put up their hands without resistance.
Zus steps forward.
The man shrugs and beckons for them to follow him.
He strolls off ahead whistling.
He leads them into a military camp past a soldier on horseback
A middle-aged man with bags under his eyes, a black fur hat and a black leather coat over his coffee uniform, emerges from a tent.
Zus shoots a glance at his brother's impassive face.
Says the commander with a smirk.
Tuvia saluting
Panchenko returns the salute.
The whistling Russian Gramov escorts them out of the camp.
A view of a thick pine forest.
Tuvia rides up on a white horse.
And with quiet pride, watches his flock, young and old, busily building a new camp.
Aron and Asael saw wood.
Arkady hammers a roof beam.
Shimon in his hat, overcoat, and scarf wields an axe.
Malbin is using an axe handle to secure a nail.
Tuvia tosses him a hammer.
Zus overhearing scowls.
Zus listens uneasily.
Later, Asael comes into the camp with more people.
Bella is peeling potatoes.
Kneels down taking off his hat and kisses the ground.
He looks round eagerly and address Benzion.
Tuvia glances at Malbin.
Itzak bends to kiss Tuvia's hand.
Malbin leads Itzak away past Zus, who scowls at Tuvia.
Chaya turns to Asael.
Tuvia smiles coldly.
Zus whacks Tuvia in the face.
Asael and Chaya watch in dismay.
Shimon, Malbin, Lazar and the others look accusingly at Zus.
He steps towards Tuvia, who's looking at the blood on his fingers.
Tuvia hits back and launches himself at his brother.
Benzion tries to pull them apart, but is shoved to one side.
Zus' next blow sends Tuvia reeling to the ground.
Aron looks at them both in shock.
Zus rolls Tuvia on his back with a flick of his foot.
Tuvia slowly scrambles to his feet.
Zus spits and whacks his brother again with another kick.
He pulls him up with both hands and slams him back onto the muddy ground.
He goes to do it again, but Tuvia fists him in the groin.
He pushes Zus down on his back, picks up a round stone and prepares to throw it.
Zus holds a protective hand in front of his face.
People watch in mute shock.
With a livid scowl, Tuvia drops the stone on the ground and gets to his feet.
Zus sits up and wipes his mouth.
Straightening his jacket, he looks around at the assembled people staring at him.
Benzion picks up his gun.
Zus addresses Asael, who's standing with Chaya.
The two young people look at each other.
Zus looks at them both and affectionately pats Asael on the cheek.
He turns to find Bella standing behind him.
Without a word, he grabs his machine gun, and with a line of volunteers behind, strides off past Tuvia.
At Nowogrodek, Nazi soldiers stand guard as Jewish men and women wearing yellow stars file into the ghetto.
Tuvia and Asael stride purposefully past the ghetto entrance.
They carefully tread along a low-tiled roof.
They climb down at the far end of the roof and hurry towards the interior of the ghetto.
On an unpaved woodland track.
The army general Panchenko astride a tall black horse with Gramov at his side.
Rides at the head of an infantry column toward Zus and his men standing by the side of the track.
Panchenko nods at Zus who nods back.
As the Russian commander moves on, Zus and his men fall in with the Russian foot soldiers.
A Jewish elder at the ghetto.
The room is packed with smartly dressed, solemn looking people.
Tuvia addresses two women in the room.
Tuvia looks despairingly at Asael.
A beautiful young woman steps forward.
Under a cover of darkness, as the ghetto people stream out of a house tearing off their yellow stars.
One Jewish man hiding in a doorway peers towards the floodlit square where German guards are on duty in front of the barb wired entrance to the ghetto.
He beckons to Asael across the dark narrow street where the people have gathered.
Asael ushers them out through a hole in the wall and into the street, leaving behind a pile of yellow fabric stars.
At daybreak, carrying bags and cases, they walk in single file across the wintry landscape towards a windmill and on into the Birchwood forest.
At the camp, Shimon and Malbin are sitting behind a makeshift desk on which people are putting their valuables.
She and her parents hug each other.
Shimon addresses an elderly man.
Tuvia shows the man a loose trigger on a rifle.
The watchmaker hands back the rifle.
The trigger works.
Tuvia on his horse.
Young and old listen with rapt attention.
Malbin nods approvingly.
A curly-haired boy turns to Lilka, the beautiful newcomer.
Asael supervises shooting practice.
Elsewhere, women are sitting at sewing machines.
Girls peel potato.
Some men pray.
In his cabin, Tuvia is polishing a chess piece with a cloth.
Chaya beams at Asael.
Aron, sitting by the chessboard, smiles at Tuvia.
At night, as the community sleeps, one man stands guard.
By a railway line in daylight, Gramov places a playing card on top of a detonator and slides it under the rail.
Explaining to Zus.
He removes the card.
Inserts a knife blade into a hole in the detonator and turns it.
Zus nearly jumps up out of his skin.
Zus picks up the detonator and goes.
Gramov retrieve his playing card and follows him
At the camp, Shimon is giving a chess lesson.
Asael scwols at Arkady.
Bella and Asaell look across at Chaya, as she appears carrying a basket.
Asael takes a glug of the confiscated vodka, and goes to meet her.
Chaya smiles and lowers her eyes.
Asael lips part but no sounds comes out.
Asael nods and exhales, shyly she takes his hand.
Later, Shimon officiates their wedding.
Snow billows.
A German truck crawls on a snowy track.
The Russians line wait.
When Shimon nods, Tuvia steps forward with a ring.
Asael tends to Chaya who has a shawl over her long loose hair,
and takes her hand.
He kisses his young bride, the onlookers smile.
Commander Panchenko gives the signal.
Standing under the chuppah, Asael stamps on a glass.
And the Russians let go.
Germans fall on mountains.
At the wedding, people start to dance.
Tuvia hugs Asael.
In the woods, Zus leads the onslaught.
Young couple dance.
Zus fires on a truck.
Tuvia enjoining the circular dance.
Smiles across at Lilka.
Zus sets a bomb under the truck.
Tuvia finds Lilka as the dancers surge into the middle.
Dead Germans are searched.
Two officers kneeling await their fate.
Zus comes up behind them and shoots them both on the head.
Chaya in a chair is lifted up to shoulder height and twirled around.
Panchenko addresses Zus.
As he walks by.
Chaya and Asael are both held aloft by their well-wishers.
Who jig up and down in a huddle.
Together the young couple hold the napkin that was wrapped around the glass Asael crushed with his foot.
Deep winter has set in at the Naliboki Forest Camp.
A table and bench are blanketed in snow.
A wheelbarrow stands marooned.
Frozen washing hangs heavily on the line.
A woman breaks the ice that has formed in a bucket of water.
Next to her, Chaya, ladles out some soup to a long line of people.
Asael, standing in a gutter nearby.
He holds up two potatoes.
Tuvia looks around at the ashen faces of the people queuing up for food.
Asael covers up the potato stash with some sacking,
and climbs out of the hole.
In one of the huts, Layla, sits huddled at a table.
Shimon and Malbin are trying to keep a chess game going on their knees.
Weaver, the nurse, is rubbing oinment onto a man's frost-bitten toes.
Rachel is sitting with her grandfather.
Lazar addresses those present.
In his cabin, Tuvia knocks back some vodka and stares grimly ahead.
Later in the snowy woodland, he comes into a clearing holding his horse by its bridle.
He strokes its white muzzle and with a deep sigh takes his revolver out of its holster.
Malbin hurrying through the snow with an armful of kindling stops in his tracks.
Arkady insists on a bigger portion than the rest.
Morosely, Tuvia watches the people elbowing each other out of the way,
and walks past Malbin without acknowledging him.
Elsewhere in the forest commander Panchenko and Gramov ride ahead of the column of soldiers who are walking behind them.
At their base camp, Zus gulps back some vodka,
and passes the bottle to Panchenko,
who drains it, and tosses it over his shoulder.
Zus looks across at Viktor Panchenko.
Zeus face turns to the side
At the camp Tuvia in his heavy gray coat and hat, machine gun over his shoulder, steps into a dark cabin where Lilka is sitting by a stove.
He put the gun down,
and whips off his hat.
He throws a small log into the stove.
He smiles at her as he rubs his hands.
His cheeks tense.
He drapes his coat around her shoulders, and she thanks him with a nod.
Reaching into his trouser pocket, he brings out his revolver.
He flashes her a brief smile, and she goes.
From outside the door where Arkady leers in at him.
Lazar with a wounded man.
Tuvia sees Lilka Setting off to find food.
Lilka wrapped up in Tuvia's coat and her shawl over her head, with a bag over her shoulder, goes off into the wintry forest.
Lilka wanders into a frosty dell.
There are animal tracks in the snow ahead of her, and through the mist she sees an Alsatian staring back at her.
She starts to retreat.
The hound bounds towards her.
She turns and runs.
He leaps on her back, knocking her down.
She leans up against a tree and watches in terror as it tears at the food stock with its sharp teeth.
She stretches out her hand to reach the sack.
The dog bares its teeth.
It leaps up, and they both fall to the ground.
She raises her head.
In her hand, she's holding the gun.
She walks back to camp with the dead dog slung across her shoulders.
As Tuvia contemplates the cabin full of sick people, Lilka comes in.
His eyes search her face.
She hands back the revolver.
At the army camp, Viktor is looking at a chart.
Tuvia has come into the camp.
Zus looks at Tuvia and turns away.
Zus comes up.
At night in the deserted town of Stakiewicze, Zus and Tuvia are sitting in a parked vehicle.
Tuvia is coughing.
Tuvia produces the ornate Mezuzah case.
Zus snatches it from him and climbs out of the truck.
He signals to Benzion and Krensky.
Keeping their heads low, the three of them scurry across to one building, and then sneak towards the police station building flying the Nazi flag.
Tuvia's feverish eyes watch nervously from inside the vehicle.
He starts at the sight of lights flashing amid the sound of gun fire and grips his own gun.
In the police station, Krensky is shot dead.
Benzion fires back, killing two policemen.
Tuvia trembles.
Zus dives towards the next office and is shot at by the police chief but not before gunning him to the ground.
Zus runs into the office,
flings open the cupboard of small medicine bottles, and scoops them up into a sack.
Benzion vaults over the police counter, reaches for the transmitter,
and smashes it with the butt end of his rifle.
A policeman bursts in and plants Benzion with bullets.
Zus runs back into the front office and guns down the policeman, clutching the wound in his stomach.
Tuvia's face is full of foreboding.
The vehicle hurtles out of the town.
Wincing with pain, Zus produces the bundle of medicine bottles.
The truck's head lights pierce the bliss of the country road.
Sometime later, Shimon officiates the burial.
In his cabin Tuvia is fighting the fever.
At mealtime, as people huddle in groups, Arkady is standing at the food table.
Arkady glares at Asael
Both draw knives.
Arkady stares at Tuvia's drawn pale face and the black rings under his eyes and he sheathes his knife.
Arkady saunters off, his lip curled.
Asael watches Tuvia withdraw
Lilka also looks anxious.
Asael's eyes baled with anger
At the army camp, Zus is sitting on own.
Lova, one of his group, kneels down by a basin of water, his face and hands covered in blood.
Zus's eyes flicker in anger.
In his tent, Viktor, bleary-eyed, is playing the accordion.
Gramov sitting by him is whistling.
Viktor pours another glass of vodka
Zus indicates Gramov who doesn't appear to be paying attention.
Viktor swipes him across the face.
Gramov glances at this commanding officer and looks up at Zus.
Says Viktor, dismissing the incident with a wave of his hand.
Zus leaves the tent.
Later, they're on the march again, with Viktor and Gramov leading the way on horseback,
with Zus and all the rest of the soldiers following on foot.
In the camp, Tuvia is in his cabin struggling with a fever.
Outside, people are patiently in the food queue.
Arkady and his friend are sharing a joke.
Aron runs up to his brother's cabin.
Chaya brings plates full of food to Arkady's table.
Tuvia appears.
Tuvia notices Asael's black eye.
Asael looks over to Arkady who's standing with his back to them both, tucking into his large portion of food.
Arkady pretends not to hear.
He takes another spoonful,
then slowly hands his plate to a cohort,
and turns towards Tuvia with an insolent scowl.
Arkady glances round at the fearful expressions of the rest of the people.
Tuvia looks at him in disbelief.
Asael drops his head in shame.
Tuvia turns round to face the community, Arkady behind him, smirking.
Tuvia spins round and shoots him point-blank, and points his gun at Arkady's cohort.
He lowers the gun.
Asael swallows nervously.
The men at the table jump to their feet,
and bend down to carry off Arkady's lifeless body.
They carry him away past Lilka, Chaya, and Rachel.
Tuvia, with his two younger brothers near him, looks defiantly at the silent huddle of people, watching him.
Later, he lies in bed.
A blanket is pulled up over him.
His eyes flicker open, and he sees Lilka looking down at him.
She smiles softly.
His face lights up for a brief moment.
Then his eyes shut.
She sits down in a chair near to the bed to watch him.
A ray of sunshine bathes the log cabin in soft golden light.
Tuvia, armed with his machine gun, is on an early morning watch.
Asael unhooks a curtain from his cabin window and peers out.
Icicles are beginning to thaw.
Lilka stands with her face raised towards the sun, luxuriating in its warmth.
Tuvia treads through the softening snow, and wanders off into the hazy sunshine.
A camera lens is set on a tripod, and the whole Bielski camp assembles for a group photograph.
some of the women are washing in the creek.
Bella splashes Chaya.
Tamara Huddled in her black coat despite the sunshine.
Look nervous and frightened.
Lilka steps out of the water to meet her.
Tamara glances around then takes Lilka by the hand and leads her out of the earshot of the others.
She opens her coat and touches her belly.
Lilka's clear blue eyes look searchingly at Tamara whose face crumples.
Lilka gently squeezes Tamara's clasped hands.
Tuvia comes down through some trees, his gun held loosely in his hand.
Malbin hurries up to meet him.
Handing Malbin the gun, Tuvia runs off to investigate.
He whips back a curtain across the door of a cabin.
Lilka, Bella and Riva are with Tamara and her baby.
He strides away.
Tuvia gazes at Lilka and his face softens.
She plants a kiss on his lips.
He looks at her in mute surprise.
She stands in front of him unflinching.
Slowly he moves his mouth towards hers lightly brushing her lips.
They kiss more fully.
He smiles and their lips meet again.
Beyond some trees, a German truck full of soldiers drives across a metal bridge followed by a car.
Aron, hiding behind a tree, watches faithfully.
At the camp, Shimon and Malbin are hunched over their chess set.
A message bag,
A German courier.
People crowd round the blond head German
Tuvia checks Aron's cheek.
Then sits down at the table.
And opens the courier's leather case.
He hands a document to Shimon.
Malbin watches anxiously as people's anger turns to violence.
Tuvia has his back turned as a bearded Jew spits on a man.
And Shelman the man who brought him, kicks him in the back.
Tuvia and Shimon hurry over.
Tuvia remains a t a distance watching the mob take over.
The German is felled.
Aaron, his cheek swollen turns away.
Bella viciously slams the man with her rifle butt.
Tuvia glances at Asael and walks off.
Shimon and Malbin wincing, watch the mob savagely beat the man to death.
With eyes dulled and a numbed expression.
Tuvia comes across Aron sitting hunched on a mossy bank.
His rifle on his lap.
A hand to his mouth.
Tuvia leans against a tree and watches his young brother's distress.
Asael observes from a distance.
At night, a guard patrols the camp.
In his cabin, bathed in golden lamplight, Tuvia is sitting up in bed bare-chested with Lilka lying against him, covered by a blanket.
He pulls her close to him and they settle down to sleep.
Early one morning, at the army camp, Zus strides into Viktor's tent.
Viktor turns to Zus.
Zus turns to leave the commander's hut.
Zus strides past Lova.
Zus glancing at a German plane crossing the sky.
At the camp Tuvia and Malbin see it too.
People pack up their belongings.
Guns and grenades loaded into Baskets and bags.
Tuvia peers up to the sky at a plane changing direction.
He dives towards Aron as the bomber passes overhead.
People run in all directions as bombs explode around them.
Many are hit.
Tuvia and Lilka herd women and children through the smoke and flame towards the largest bunker.
A woman is hit.
More and more people are bundled into the shelter.
Tuvia, weaving his way between the trees, is knocked off his feet by an exploding shell.
As he groggily struggles to raise his head, his blue eyes seem dazed.
Behind him, a bunker explodes, throwing bodies in all directions in a cascade of debris.
In slow motion, a man runs through the trees amid the dust and flames.
Tuvia, clutching a slender tree branch, his body position dazed, watches a bomber fly across the sky about to drop another bomb.
Malbin appears out of the haze, pulls him towards a shelter.
Asael arrives at the same moment.
Tuvia slaps down against the wall of the bunker.
The planes are flying away.
Asael breaks from Tuvia.
Malbin herds people out of the bunker.
The survivors run through the trees, some carrying bundles, others armed with rifles.
Chaya clings desperately to Asael.
He and Tuvia take up gun positions behind a bunker.
Asael glance his sideways and sees Chaya positioning her rifle.
He watches his young wife being urged away.
His nose bleeding, Tuvia walks away from the burning remains of the camp,
leaving a few men and women standing behind the mossy roots of their bunkers with weapons poised, keeping their sights fixed on the woodland ahead of them.
Among them, Lazar, Lilka, and Asael.
Deeper in the forest, the rest of the community hurry through the bare trees.
The shooters leaning on the roofs of the shelters scan the horizon.
One of the women is hit.
Asael fires at the unseen enemy.
Tuvia stops to listen to the sound of gunfire.
Another man is down.
Asael keeping his head low scurries to a new position.
A machine gunner falls to the ground.
Lazar runs on.
The others give him cover.
Asael scrambles sideways, firing as he runs.
The bunker behind him is blown to smithereens.
Asael pulls an injured woman, Layla, to safety.
Lazar with rifle in hand, ducks behind a tree.
Lazar reloads.
Seeing Asael crawling towards him with Layla hurt, he propels himself out from behind the tree and runs towards the enemy.
His body is tossed into the air like a rag doll.
Asael looks behind him and sees a female shoot a hit, her arm still clinging to her machine gun.
Her head goes limp, but the gun goes on firing.
Deeper in the misty forest.
Tuvia at the head of his flock, faced as he strides on, a machine gun is held across his body.
Further on, with Malbin, Bella, and Shulman behind him, he comes into a clearing.
But his pale blue eyes scan the horizon.
Stretching ahead of them with no end in sight is marshland.
Aron and Rachel, Tamara cuddling her baby look up at the sky.
Malbin shakes his head.
He looks behind him at Chaya, who is weeping.
Tuvia crouches down.
Tuvia's whole body is trembling.
Malbin looks to Shimon for an answer.
Tuvia stares ahead like a man who has lost his way.
She brings out a revolver.
He checks the chamber and hands it back to her.
He cocks his own gun.
Asael hands Layla over.
Tuvia looks into Lilka's eyes then springs to his feet.
Handing Asael the connected belts.
Tuvia looks deeply into his fearless brother's face and kisses him gratefully on the cheek.
The Bielski Otriad set off, treading carefully through the foot-high water, holding on to the rope made up of all their belts with one hand to keep their balance and to keep connected.
As they proceed, the water level rises to their knees.
A woman slips, but is helped to her feet.
Asael, at the back, not holding the belt, loses his footing, but manages to keep his rifle above the water.
Now, with the water level up to their waist, they trudge like a funeral cortege slowly and solemnly across the endless flat marsh.
Asael and Tuvia at the head of the column wade through the mushy water.
Shimon is being supported by Rachel and Malbin.
A distant plane roars above their heads,
But they trudge on.
Children are carried on the adults' shoulders,
as they wade through a reed bed, their steps making spirals in the placid surface of the water.
Asael turns around to Malbin, who is trying to follow a map.
In a narrow woodland area, Shimon, clutching his leather briefcase, starts to stumble.
He falls to one side.
Riva, the nurse, stops to attend him.
Tuvia bends over his old teacher.
Tuvia pulls the old man onto his back, leaving the leather bag of books behind.
The winding column of men, women, and children emerges from the wooded area into bright sunshine and a flowing stream.
People clamber out of the water onto a grassy bank, sinking down to rest their weary legs, smiling and laughing with relief.
Shimon is brought up onto the meadow on a stretcher.
Aaron runs up and taps Tuvia on the shoulder.
He points across at Malbin next to his intellectual aspiring partner stroking the old man's grizzled and deathly pale face.
Tuvia crouches down at Shimon's side.
Malbin looks anxiously across at Tuvia, who wipes his eyes leveled on the old man's face as he breathes his last.
Tuvia looks up sharply.
A tank appears on the brow of the hill.
Cannonballs explode among the fleeing Bielskis.
Couching low, Tuvia sprints between the cowering people.
Lilka passes ammo to those with guns.
The German infantry are coming at them.
More cannonballs explode the Bielski lines, claiming more victims.
Asael fires his gun blind, the smoke obscuring his vision.
Tuvia tosses a bag at Malvin and hares away across the field, his physical and mental strength restored.
The two of them dive into thick woodland, moving behind the nemy lines, with a view of the German soldiers and their tank ahead of them.
They crouch down, as half a dozen Germans come past and set up a gun position in front of them.
With murder in his eyes, Tuvia cocks his machine gun and steps forward, gunning down every single man.
Tuvia appropriates the German gun, takes up a position in the undergrowth behind the German line,
and fires on the troops who are facing away from them, killing a number of them.
The Germans regroup.
The heavy tank gun is slowly turned in Tuvia and Malbin's direction.
As the black mouth of the big gun moves near, Tuvia leaps out of the way and dives behind a tree.
A tank fires into the undergrowth behind him.
More Germans zip across the field and take up positions just yards away from them.
Shells explode to the right and left of Tuvia, but miss their mark.
Malbin is cowering behind a nearby tree.
The tank gun fires again, showering them both with gunpowder and debris.
Malbin prepares an explosive.
With gritted teeth, Malbin urges from behind the tree and runs at the tank, but is shot.
The missile explodes around him.
The helmeted Germans fire in Tuvia's direction.
Shells ricochet off the trees around him.
One soldier creeps nearer, but is shot in the back.
His fellow troops look behind them for a split second as guns fire at them from behind a wall of trees.
Zus comes surging out of the trees, single-handedly decimating the Germans caught off guard.
The rest of his men follow him out of the trees and set about the rest.
As the tank operator fires again, Zus clambers up onto the tank and draws his pistol.
The tank operator flops to one side.
Zus drops a grenade into the tank.
His men spread across the field in alarmed marching in step and fire on the remaining Germans.
With not one left standing, Zus gets to his feet on the side of the tank, his eyes anxiously searching the trees.
His men go through the dead soldiers' pockets.
Tuvia emerges from out of the hazy smoke, his piercing blue eyes darting from side to side.
The Bielski Otriad, lying on the side of the hill with their guns at the ready, raise their heads.
Slowly, they begin to scramble to their feet and walk to the top of the sunny slope.
Zus, standing on the smoking tank, sees his brother walking out of the trees.
Their eyes meet.
But Tuvia's blackened face remains impassive.
Moments later, he's striding across the field.
Even old women bend over the dead bodies.
He thrust his gun to Shulman.
Aron brings Zus a gun, which he slings over his shoulder, patting the boy affectionately on the leg.
He starts walking.
And finds himself looking at Bella's gaunt face.
He strokes her cheek and wraps an arm around her shoulder.
He sees Tuvia standing by himself, watching him.
Asael looks anxious across at his older brothers.
Zus removes his arm from Bella's shoulder.
Tuvia takes a few steps towards him, then stops.
Zus steps nearer, but neither brother looks at the other.
Tuvia looks at him, his rigid features softening slightly.
They hold each other's gaze.
Then they hug fiercely.
Asael smiles with relief.
Zus and Tuvia follow, their arms wrapped around each other's waist.
The Bielski Otriad moves in a column beneath the birchwood trees.
Tuvia, with Lilka walking alongside, stops and looks ahead, his face serious.
Zus comes up behind him and shoves him playfully.
The four brothers, walking side by side, lead the way along the woodland path.
On the left-hand side of the screen, a black and white photo of the real Asael Bielski appears.
A second photograph shows Zus.
A third photograph shows Tuvia, who followed soon after.
The last photo is of the real Bielski Otriad posing for the camera.
Six silver interlocking V shapes of decreasing sizes.
A hearse and several cars are parked outside a large Catholic church.
A balding man plays the organ.
A small congregation sits in pews towards the front of the grand church.
An older man, Al, gets up from his pew and walks past a coffin draped in a white sheet.
Al walks up to him.
On a table in front of the coffin is a photograph of an attractive middle-aged woman.
Standing beside the coffin is a tall hard-faced elderly man, Walt Kowalski.
Al shakes Walt's hand and goes back to his pew.
Four casually-dressed teenage kids -- Daniel, David, Ashley and Josh -- walk up the aisle.
They each kneel and make the sign of the cross.
shley a pretty girl with red hair wears a short top exposing her pierced belly button.
Seeing this, Walt grimaces.
Josh, a thin boy with fair hair, is last to kneel, bow and make the sign of the cross.
Walt watches the kids, tight-lipped, eyes narrowed.
His middle-aged sons, Mitch and Steve, turn to each other.
Walt stands motionless like a stone statue.
Mitch gives Steve a withering look.
Mitch's wife Karen shushes them.
Walt looks down weary.
He has thin gray hair combed to one side.
A young priest, wearing a flowing white surplice, steps up to his lectern beside the altar.
Ashley sits texting on her cell phone.
The Stars and Stripes flies on a pole outside Walt's modest clapboard house.
Inside, the mourners help themselves to food.
In the basement, Daniel, David and Josh open a trunk,
and look at some war photographs.
Steve follows Walt, who wears a permanent frown.
Walt heads down to the basement.
Tubby, Steve looks put out.
Hearing Walt come down, the boys quickly shut the trunk,
rush over to a couch and sit down.
Ignoring them, Walt picks up two metal folding chairs,
and goes back upstairs.
Sitting holding her cell phone, Ashley looks at her mother Karen.
Ashley goes over to Walt, who's unfolding the chairs.
Ashley rolls her eyes and looks at Karen, who beckons her over.
Ashley trudges back to her seat.
Walt walks out of the front door with his Golden Labrador.
He opens a pouch of chewing tobacco as he goes down the front steps.
and watches people go into the house next door.
Walt pops some tobacco in his mouth
Walt stares at the house, eyes narrowed.
He spits and wanders away.
Ashley's in the large garage, smoking.
Beside her, with its cover partially pulled back is a pristine Ford Gran Torino muscle car.
Walt pulls open the garage door.
and sunlight floods in.
Ashley drops the cigarette and blows out smoke.
He steps on the cigarette.
Having just pulled the cover over the car, he stares at Ashley incredulously,
and steps over to the door.
He spits and walks out.
Ashley rolls her eyes.
Walt opens his front door to a teenager, Thao.
Walt slams the door and turns to the priest.
Walt shoves past the fresh-faced priest, Father Janovich.
Next door, a steady stream of Southeast Asian Hmong people walk up to the front door.
Most carry plates or bowls of food.
As mourners leave, Walt uses jump leads to get a woman's car started.
Mitch drives up in a Toyota Land Cruiser.
Walt straightens up and stares at the silver four-by-four as it departs.
Walt puts his jump leads on a garden table,
and walks up onto the back porch.
Looks across at his neighbor and their friends gathered in the garden.
Walt snarls.
An elder in ceremonial dress prepares to slaughter a chicken.
Next door, a grandmother talks to a middle-aged man.
The extended family gather before the elder, Kor Khue.
He shakes a hoop with metal rings on it.
Beside him is a young woman holding a baby, which is wrapped in a brightly embroidered papoose.
He lays the hoop on the carpet and throws a horn split in two into it.
Thao walks out of the back door.
With cupped hands, Kor Khue gestures to the mother and child.
Beside them, the father raises his hands.
Next door, Walt sweeps his drive with a broom.
His Labrador Daisy scampers down the front steps.
Walt looks at next door's garden as Thao walks up his front steps.
The grass is thin and parched.
Grandma sits on the porch and watches Walt.
Grandma mutters to herself.
Glaring at her, Walt spits.
Grandma spits copiously.
Walt grimaces.
Inside, he leans down to Daisy by the front door.
Walt opens the door to Father Janovich.
Walt shuts the door.
Thao wanders along by a high chain link fence, browsing through a book.
A large black sedan with side exhaust pipes rolls up.
Two heavy-duty Latino guys lean out of the window.
Thao keeps walking.
Thao smiles.
A white car with five South Asian guys in it stops up ahead.
The driver, Spider, has long black hair and wears a bandanna.
He sees Thao.
Spider drives down the road and stops beside the black sedan.
He and the guy he was talking to, Smokie, lean out of the window.
A Latino guy has a revolver.
Smokie wields a machine pistol.
The Latino guys speed off.
Spider reverses up beside Thao.
Thao walks on,
and Spider gets out.
They drive off and Thao keeps walking.
Later, Thao's gardening.
His sister Sue is sitting on the front steps, reading.
The gang drive up.
Thao eyes them suspiciously.
The five mean-looking Hmong guys get out.
Spider walks over to Thao.
Spider ruffles Thao's hair.
Sue goes inside.
Thao takes off his gardening gloves and stands with Spider and Smokie.
Thao looks next door.
Thao follows them.
The gang spot Walt's car.
Walt's in a bar with his buddies.
They leave the others at the bar.
Walt makes to drink his whiskey but stops short.
Walt downs his shot in one.
Father J nods.
A noise wakes Walt from his slumbers.
He looks out of the window and sees torchlight in his garage.
He gets up,
and goes over to a chest.
He opens it and pulls out an old military rifle.
He opens the breech and loads a magazine into it, then cocks it.
Rifle in hand, Walt edges the garage door open,
and walks inside.
He sees Thao with a torch beside the Gran Torino.
As Walt advances, the barrel of the rifle knocks the overhead light, sending it swinging.
By its drunken swaying light, he aims the rifle at Thao, who backs away.
Thao stumbles and falls backwards, tripping Walt in the process.
The rifle goes off, shooting a sign on the wall.
Thao runs out of the garage, leaving Walt sprawling on the ground.
He runs to Spider's souped-up Honda in the street.
Walt spits out some blood,
and pushes himself up.
Mitch makes a phone call in his kitchen.
Walt is in his garage installing window grills.
Walt hangs up.
Mitch looks put-out.
In his driveway, Walt lovingly polishes his Gran Torino.
It's dark green with gold trims.
He buffs a wing of the car and works his way around to the bonnet, carefully removing any marks.
Evening, Walt sits on his porch with his dog Daisy and lights a cigarette,
he looks out at gran torino parked on the drive.
A couple of people walk by on the street.
Walt swigs from a can of beer.
As the light begins to fade and several beers later, he gets to his feet.
He calls to his dog as he heads inside.
He switches on the porch light as he goes into the house and shuts the door behind him.
Night, Spider's Honda pulls up on the street outside Thao's house.
Spider and his cronies get out.
They approach Thao and his sister Sue sitting on the porch.
Spider tousles Thao's hair.
Spider hustles Thao towards the car.
Family members intervene and a scuffle breaks out.
The scuffle spills over onto Walt's lush green lawn and two garden gnomes are broken.
Rifle in hand, Walt marches onto the lawn.
He aims his gun at the squabbling guys.
They straighten up.
As Smokie stares down the rifle's barrel, he reconsiders.
Spider lets go of Thao,
and he and his buddies retreat to his car.
Walt keeps the gun trained on them as they go.
Thao rejoins his family.
Walt heads back into his house.
Sue, Thao and the others go back to theirs.
Walt is at the kitchen sink.
Hearing something, he picks his rifle up from beside his cooker,
and goes out on to the porch to investigate.
He looks surprised to find some of his neighbors laying gifts of food and flowers on his front steps.
The Hmongs leave.
Walt stares at the platters of food with distaste.
He puts them all in the trash.
He sees more of his neighbors approaching with gifts.
He intercepts Sue and Thao.
He looks sheepishly at Walt.
Walt marches back to his house.
Sue, her mother and Thao get back to theirs.
Sue turns back to look at Walt.
Father Janovich finds Walt sitting on his porch, smoking his cigarette
Walt gets up.
Father Janovich nods slightly.
Walt is at the barber's.
Sue is with a white boy, Trey.
They approach three black youths.
As the black guys hassle Sue and Trey.
Walt pulls up at the junction in his pickup.
Walt watches thoughtfully.
Looking uneasy, Walt drives across the junction.
Walt pulls up beside them.
The black guys notice Walt.
Walt steps out of his pickup.
Chewing on a plug of tobacco, he squares up to the three black guys.
He spits.
Walt points his finger like a gun.
He cocks his thumb.
The guys hold Sue back.
Walt pulls a Colt .pistol.
Trey hurries off and Walt puts his gun away.
He turns to the black guys.
He turns back to his pickup.
Walt looks menacingly back at them.
He gets in the truck with Sue in the passenger seat.
Walt drives off in a leisurely, unhurried fashion.
Walt nods thoughtfully.
Walt sits down on his porch with a newspaper.
He sees the elderly grandma from next door looking over at him.
He picks up his glasses and puts them on to read the paper.
He looks down at Daisy.
Disgruntled, he looks across the street at a white woman unloading groceries from her car.
She drops them.
Three passing Hmong youths make no attempt to help her.
One of them mimes shagging her.
He sits back down as Thao helps the woman.
Walt puts his glasses down,
and picks up a mug.
He takes a drink.
Walt looks over at the old lady next door and she gives him a nod.
With big buttons.
Cigarettes.
Walt looks furious.
Walt puts away a photo of his wife.
Sitting on his porch, he looks over at the road,
where Sue helps two other women get out of a car.
She walks over towards him as he sips from a beer can.
He's tempted.
They go next door.
Walt opens the well stocked fridge.
He pats a child's head.
Everyone gives him disapproving looks.
Sue steers him away.
At a buffet table.
He looks at the buffet.
Sue brings Walt another beer and finds him staring at the elder in ceremonial dress sitting across the room.
The old man stares back.
She goes over to Kor Khue.
They go over to Walt.
Walt sits down in a chair,
and Kor Khue studies his craggy features.
Walt looks thoughtful.
Troubled Walt looks up at the diminutive Kor Khue, who nods.
Walt gets to his feet,
and walks across the room.
He looks into the next room, where some women are having tea.
Sue watches him as he begins to cough.
He coughed up blood onto the back of his hand.
He quickly conceals it from Sue and hurries away upstairs.
She follows him.
Walt disappears into the bathroom and shuts the door behind him.
He rinses his face in the basin and regards his reflection in the mirror.
He dries his face.
He opens the bathroom door.
As he sits at the table, women fuss around him and load his plate with food.
Sue wanders into the kitchen and finds him tucking in.
Very reluctantly he gets up.
Sue leads Walt down into the basement,
where the younger generations of Hmongs have gathered.
Walt looks singularly unimpressed.
Sue smiles and goes towards Thao, who sits alone, away from the others.
Walt leans against a tumble dryer.
It rocks under his weight.
He puts his beer down and fiddles about underneath the tumble dryer, adjusting its legs to stabilize it.
Some of the youngsters look over at him, on his hands and knees.
He notices them looking.
He gets back up, pats the drier and leans against it for a moment.
Satisfied it's OK, he begins to wander across the basement.
He eyes an attractive Hmong girl who's sitting with some boys.
Walt notices she keeps glancing over at Thao.
Walt drinks from a beer bottle,
and walks over to Sue who offers him a glass of clear liquid.
He takes a sip and Sue wanders off.
Walt puts his beer down and looks back over at the girl sitting with the boys.
Walt glances over at Thao sitting on his own, looking miserable.
She keeps looking at Thao.
The girl gets up and walks up behind Walt.
He turns around and sees her.
She wanders off and he stares after her.
As she goes upstairs, the group of boys follows her.
Walt goes over to Thao.
He sips his drink.
Thao looks away.
Walt matches off, leaving Thao looking dejected but thoughtful.
Walt mows his front lawn with a push mower.
He looks up and sees two of his Hmong neighbors bringing flowers to his house.
The neighbors smile.
As the neighbors leave the flowers, Walt carries on mowing.
He stops and looks back at them.
Later, he opens his door to more of the neighbors bearing food.
He sniffs it.
He waves the three women and their food inside.
He follows them in.
Later, he pulls onto his drive in his pickup and finds Sue, Thao and their mother, waiting for him.
He shoos them away.
He's on his porch drinking coffee.
He stands up as a sheepish-looking Thao approaches.
Walt leaves him to it and wanders off towards his garage.
Thao finds Walt watching his abatis border.
Thao looks thoughtful.
Thao shrugs.
Walt looks at a house across the street.
The house is very dilapidated.
Thao is up a ladder, fixing the old house.
Walt watches with a Hmong neighbor.
Thao removes a louvered shutter from the roof.
In the garden he pulls up a dead tree,
and loads rubble into a wheelbarrow.
Walt, chewing tobacco, stands across the street with Daisy and watches.
Thao fixes the house number onto a post on the porch.
Walt smokes a cigarette and watches as Thao scrapes old paint off the clapboard exterior.
Then gives it a coat of fresh paint.
It's raining hard and Walt stands on his porch, watching
Thao struggling with an old tree stump in the garden opposite.
Walt smokes another cigarette,
as Thao digs the stump out in the rain.
Exhausted, Thao seats down by the stump.
An elder Hmong man and a young girl approach Walt as he seats on his front steps.
The old man and his granddaughter go.
Smiling, Walt turns to Daisy.
Rubbing his blistered hand together, a grinning Thao walks up Walt's front steps.
Walt is in his bathroom.
He spits blood in to the sink,
and regards himself in the mirror for a moment, before going to the door.
Walt considers.
Thao's smile fades and he turns to go.
He turns back and Walt's face softens a bit.
Walt disappears inside and shuts the door.
Thao wanders down off the porch.
Walt sits in a doctor's waiting room.
He glances round at the other patients.
An Indian woman sits beside him and an Indian man and a black woman sit opposite him.
A Muslim nurse appears wearing a headscarf.
Walt frowns.
Irritated, Walt gets up.
A female Oriental doctor checks his notes.
Karen hands him the phone.
Reluctantly, Mitch answers it.
As Mitch hangs up, he looks troubled.
Walt stares into the distance with a frown.
He looks down at some hospital admission forms and test results.
Day, Thao carries a bundle of garden waste out to the front of his house.
Walt watches from his porch as Spider's car comes slowly down the street.
Thao sees it and goes back into the garden.
Walt lights a cigarette, as the modified Honda cruises slowly by.
Smokie stares out of the car, and Walt mimes shooting him.
Smokie responds by giving him the finger.
Thao watches the exchange of gestures.
Later Walt opens his front door to Thao.
Walt's working under the sink in Thao's kitchen.
The ceiling fan gyrates unsteadily.
In his garage, Walt works on the fan with Thao.
Thao folds his arms.
Walt doubles up.
Thao sees he's coughed up blood.
Thao nods at the Gran Torino.
Walt follows his gaze to the green V8 muscle car.
Thao nods.
Walt grins.
Down in his basement, Walt is busy moving an old freezer on a sack truck.
He attempts to get it up the stairs, but finds it hard going.
He tugs away, then gives it up as a bad job.
Thao opens his door to Walt.
They go down to Walt's basement.
They heave the freezer up the steps.
They get it outside.
Thao rubs his neck.
Sue finds Walt on his back porch, as Thao washes the Gran Torino on the drive.
She shrugs, then glances at Thao.
She goes to get one.
Walt looks over at Thao.
Later, he watches Thao working in the garden.
Walt gets a cigarette.
The lighter.
Thao and Walt get out of his pickup truck.
They go in the barber shop.
Thao goes out,
and comes straight back in.
A gun.
Martin takes a seat.
Thao comes back in.
Walt and Thao drive up to a building site in Walt's old white Ford pickup.
They park up.
Work gloves.
They leave Tim's portacabin,
and Tim sits back down at his desk.
Walt's pickup truck pulls up outside C.M. Young Hardware and Lumber Store.
Walt and Thao get out.
They go inside and look around.
Walt makes his way over to a shelf, which has what he's looking for.
A tape measure.
A tool bag.
Walt holds his hand out and Thao shakes it.
As they head off, Walt winces slightly.
Carrying his new stuff, Thao gets off a bus and jogs down a back alley heading home.
As he trots along, he sees Spider's Honda coming the other way.
The car pulls up, and Spider and his four cronies get out.
Smokie stubs a cigarette out on Thao's cheek.
Thao meets Walt near the house.
Walt grabs his arm.
Thao starts to walk away.
Thao stops and looks back.
Thao goes.
Walt wanders off, frowning.
Spider and one of his sidekicks come out of a house and walk over to the Honda, which is parked by the curb.
They get in.
They are watched from across the road by Walt, who's parked up in his pickup truck.
He watches grim-faced as the Honda drives off.
Walt picks up his Colt .automatic and cocks it.
Then talks to Daisy.
He gets out of the pickup truck.
As Smokie comes out of the house, Walt grabs him.
Walt throws him onto the lawn and kicks him repeatedly in the face.
He follows up the kicks with a few punches.
A cat scampers past and Walt draws his gun.
vening, it's raining as Walt drives his pickup truck back to his house.
He parks up on his drive and gets out with Daisy.
They walk up the steps onto the porch and Daisy crosses his path.
He bends down and picks up a key from under an ornament.
He winces as he straightens up and unlocks the door.
He and Daisy go inside.
Walt cooks a barbeque for Sue, Thao, their mother and Youa.
Youa and Thao grin and nod.
Walt points at the Gran Torino.
Walt sits in his living room with Daisy, sipping a beer and watching a ball game on TV.
Spider's car cruises down the street outside.
As it passes Thao's house, gang members discharge a couple of MAC-machine guns into the building.
Hearing the noise, Walt leaps up and takes his Colt out of a drawer.
Bullets rip through Thao's house.
Walt runs out onto his porch as the Honda speeds away.
Walt watches it go, then runs down off the porch and dashes into Thao's house.
He runs into the living room, where Thao is picking himself up.
Thao has a minor neck injury.
She comes downstairs.
Thao makes a call.
Thao turns to a grim-faced Walt and shakes his head.
Thao begins to sob.
Walt sits with Thao and his mother in their kitchen.
Walt sips a rice liquor.
Grandma sees a car go by outside.
She hurries to the door and everyone follows.
Sue comes in.
Her face is a bleeding mass of contusions.
Watching, Walt drops his glass.
Sue is helped to a chair by her mother and Grandma.
Blood runs down her face and legs.
Thao clings to his mother and sobs.
Appalled, Walt stares at Sue, his mouth hanging open.
He walks away from Thao's house, pushing the Colt into his belt.
He walks into his kitchen and leans against a worktop,
then punches in some cupboard doors.
He kicks a table, then marches into his front room and kicks over another table.
Daisy runs for cover.
Walt sits down in an armchair, blood dripping from his fingers.
He stares into the distance, a frown on his face and his features fixed and grim.
He sheds a tear.
The blood on his fists has dried.
Daisy comes and sits beside him.
Father Janovich knocks at Walt's door.
Father J lets himself in as Walt lights up a cigarette.
Father J perches on a coffee table beside an open photograph album.
Father J stares at Walt.
Walt drags on his cigarette.
Walt looks thoughtful.
Father J gets up and goes over to the cool box.
Walt drags pensively on his cigarette.
Father J returns with four cans.
He passes a couple to Walt and keeps a couple for himself.
They each take a swig.
Walt takes another swig.
Father J eyes Walt, who stares unwaveringly back at him.
Morning, Thao walks into Walt's kitchen and finds him sipping a mug of coffee.
They sit at the kitchen table.
He gives Thao a scornful look.
Thao nods reluctantly.
He gets up and goes.
Walt stares after him.
Later, Walt is busy mowing his front lawn.
Now, he relaxes in the bath.
He lights a cigarette and looks over at Daisy,
who's sitting beside the tub.
Martin gives Walt a haircut.
Martin chuckles and pockets the money.
At a tailor's, Walt is fitted for a suit.
In church, Father Janovich walks up the aisle reading a Bible.
He looks up and sees Walter.
In a confessional booth.
They step out of the confessional.
Walt walks away.
Walt looks back at him.
He smiles and goes.
Walt sits at his kitchen table cleaning his Colt .Thao comes in through the back door,
and picks Walt's rifle up off the table.
He shoulders the rifle.
He inadvertently points it at Walt.
Thao follows Walt down into the basement.
He shows him the medal.
He pins it on Thao.
Walt goes upstairs,
as Thao closes up the chest Walt took the medal from.
Thao hurries up the stairs and finds that Walt has locked him in the basement.
Walt walks out of his house with Daisy on a lead.
They go over to Thao's house.
Grandma is sitting on the porch.
He ties Daisy to Grandma's chair.
He fusses Daisy.
Walt heads off.
Daisy lies down and watches him go.
Sue is lying in bed.
Sue gets up and goes outside.
Her swollen face is discolored and bruised.
Grandma follows her.
She hurries to Walt's house.
Father Janovich is with the police outside Smokie's house.
They bundle him into their cruiser and drive away.
In Walt's house, Sue goes to the mesh door of the basement.
He runs out of the back door, Sue following him.
It's night, as Walt walks up outside Smokie's house.
Walt looks up at the house.
His face partly hidden in shadow.
One of the gangsters looks out of the window and spots Walt.
Smokie and Spider come out to confront him.
More gangsters appear, and Spider pulls a gun.
Neighbors watch.
A cigarette.
He points his index finger gun-like at the gangsters and mimes shooting them.
He holds up the cigarette.
He puts it in his mouth.
More neighbors come out to watch.
He slowly reaches inside his jacket, then whips his hand out again.
The gangsters open fire.
Bullets riddle Walt's body.
He collapses backwards onto the ground.
His hand falls open, revealing his Cavalry lighter.
Blood trickles down his sleeve into his palm and some runs from his mouth.
The cigarette lies unlit beside Walt's dead body, which lies in a cruciform.
The lights of a police car flash in the darkness.
Walt's Gran Torino pulls up outside Smokie's house.
Thao and Sue step out of it.
They hurry over to a police officer.
Sue, Thao and Father Janovich watch as a body bag is loaded into an ambulance.
Father J looks over to a patch of grass where the police have the handcuffed gangsters on their knees.
Thao bites his lip as a police captain looms over the gangsters.
Sue and Thao watch bitterly as an officer leads Spider in handcuffs to a squad car.
Another officer leads Smokie to a cruiser.
Smokie's face is still bruised from where Walt whacked him.
He glares defiantly at Sue and Thao as the officer shoves him into the car.
Thao breathes hard, the emotion welling up inside him.
Walt's Silver Star is still pinned to his T-shirt.
Thao, Sue and their mother leave their house.
Sue and Thao wear traditional Hmong dress of lavishly embroidered clothing.
Sue also wears a turban-like headdress.
and get in a taxi.
Grandma remains on the porch and watches as the taxi drives away.
She looks over at Daisy, who lies forlornly on the porch at the top of the steps.
At the church, a large number of mourners have gathered for the funeral service.
Wearing his new suit, Walt lies in an open casket in front of the altar.
Mitch and Karen take a seat in the front pew aside Steve.
Mitch looks across the aisle at Sue and Thao.
Father Janovich steps forward.
Mitch glares across the aisle at Thao.
The family are gathered for the reading of the will.
Mitch and his brother Steve exchange a look.
Ashley smiles in anticipation.
Thao drives the Gran Torino by the ocean with Daisy beside him.
An evening sky, the clouds are tinged red by the setting sun.
The sun slowly sinks below the horizon.
In the sprawling suburbs, the streets grow dark and the lights go on in the rows of houses.
A light shines from an upstairs window.
In the bedroom, a dark-haired boy wearing round glasses is looking at an unusual photo album.
He turns a page.
The people in the photographs are moving.
They smile at him.
He turns to a snowy owl in a padlocked cage.
Harry pulls a face.
In the kitchen, his Aunt Petunia is decorating a meringue gateau.
Uncle Vernon is fastening his son's bow tie.
Dudley scowls at Harry knocking into him as he passes.
The three of them stare ominously at Harry.
Harry goes upstairs as the guests arrive.
He finds a small wizened creature with floppy ears and a long pointed nose jumping on his bed.
The creature is wearing a filthy rag.
Banging his head.
Harry's bedroom.
Dobby grabs a lamp and hits himself.
Uncle Vernon hears the noise upstairs.
Vernon leaves.
He opens the wardrobe.
Dobby has a bundle of letters.
Harry chases him downstairs.
Dobby stops at the kitchen door.
On the table, stands the huge meringue gateau decorated with green and mauve whipped cream and red cherries.
Dobby clicks his fingers.
The gateau rises into the air.
He clicks his finger again.
The gateau floats out of the kitchen.
Horrified, Harry follows it into the sitting room.
The creamy desert hovers over Mrs. Mason.
Dobby clicks his fingers.
The gateau falls on her head.
Mrs. Mason is covered in cake and cream.
Dobby clicks his fingers and disappears.
Vernon fixes bars outside Harry's window.
Asleep in bed Harry suddenly wakes.
Looking puzzled he reaches out for his glasses and puts them on.
Getting out of bed, he goes across to the window and stares through the bars at the dark night sky.
A faint light appears far away above the roof tops gradually getting nearer.
To Harry's surprise, the light becomes two headlights.
A blue Ford Anglia with a white roof flies down over the neighboring gardens and hovers outside Harry's window.
The lights disturb the snowy owl.
Harry stares at the three red head boys in the car.
Dressing quickly, Harry packs his trunk.
Ron fixes a hook to the bars on the window.
The bars on window frame are wrenched away.
The Dursleys wake.
The car boot flies open and Harry pushes his luggage out into it.
Vernon unlocks the padlocks on Harry's door.
Harry passes Hedwig's cage to Ron.
Harry dives for the window but Vernon grabs his foot.
The car zooms away.
Vernon falls head first out of the window.
Vernon lands flat on his back in a bush.
He scrambles to his feet and stares angrily after the car as it disappears into the night sky.
From the back seat, Ron smiles at his friend.
The suburbs are left far behind.
As day breaks, the car reaches open countryside.
It sweeps down over green fields and trees towards a ramshackle house beside a lake.
The car touches down on a narrow sandy track and bumps along it past an outhouse.
Two pale pink pigs look up curiously from their sty.
Harry's eyes are wide with amazement.
The three brothers unlock the door and creep stealthily into the house.
Harry looks around the kitchen with delight.
A pan scrubber cleans a frying pan which holds itself under a running tap.
Ron grabs a bun.
Next to an armchair, a pair of needles hang in mid-air knitting a multi-colored garment.
A young girl.
Embarrassed the girl disappears upstairs.
Mr. Weasley joins them at the table.
An old grey owl flaps wearily towards the house and hits the window.
Percy takes an envelope from the owl's beak.
Beside the fireplace.
Wearing his school cloak, Ron steps into the fireplace and takes a handful of powder.
Ron disappears in a flash of green flames.
Harry steps forward nervously.
Harry takes a handful of powder.
Standing in the fireplace, Harry takes a deep breath.
Harry disappears in a flash of green flames.
Mrs. Weasley looks confused.
Harry shoots out of the fireplace onto a dusty wooden floor.
He is streaked with soot and ash.
He picks up his glasses and puts them on.
One of the lenses is broken.
He gets up slowly and looks around the gloomy shop.
At the glass cabinets covered in cobwebs.
They are all piled high with shrunken heads and skulls of all shapes and sizes.
Cautiously, he moves towards a shelf and taps idly on a glass dome.
Beside it, a skeletal hand with bony black fingers is mounted on a piece of marble.
Harry puts his fingers around the bony thumb.
The hand suddenly closes, clutching him tightly.
He struggles desperately to free himself from its ghastly grip.
The hand releases him, and he hurries across the shop towards the open door which leads out into the alley.
Outside, he finds himself in a damp, dingy passageway.
He passes a suspicious looking man lurking in the shadows.
Suddenly, a sharp faced witch with a pointed hat grabs him by the arm.
He is surrounded.
He is terrified.
Harry runs towards Hagrid.
A giant with bushy hair and a huge black beard.
In Diagon Alley, a girl with long wavy hair comes out of a shop and spots them.
She waves her wand.
Harry blinks as his glasses repair themselves.
She takes him to a bookshop where the Weasley family are standing near the counter.
A queue of excited customers are waiting to get their book signed.
A blond man with a blue suit and matching cloak appears.
He smiles smugly.
Posing for the camera, Lockhart spots Harry's grubby face in the crowd.
The photographer pulls Harry forward.
Ron pulls a face.
They head for the door.
A boy with very fair hair tears a page from a book.
He steps in front of Harry.
A man with long fair hair.
He touches Harry's forehead with his snake-topped cane.
The Grangers are chatting to Mr. Weasley.
He looks at Ron.
He takes a book from Jenny's cauldron.
He slips two books back into Jenny's cauldron.
Mr. Weasley smiles reassuringly at his children.
Lucius turns on his heel.
Draco glares at Ron and Harry.
King's Cross and Pancras Station.
Harry and Louisa hurry along Platform with loaded trolleys.
The twins and Percy push their trolleys straight towards the brick wall between the two platforms.
They disappear through it one after the other.
Jenny follows.
Mr. and Mrs. Weasley head for the wall.
Platform 9 and three-quarters.
On Platform 10, Harry heads for the wall with Ron close behind.
They hit solid brick.
They collapse in a heap of trolleys and luggage.
Hedwig flaps her wings.
A porter comes over.
Ron looks thoughtful.
Outside the station, the blue Ford Anglia rises unsteadily into the air.
A taxi driver looks up in amazement.
Ron presses a button on the dashboard.
High above London, the car disappears.
Thick cloud gradually clears, revealing low green hills far below.
The car suddenly reappears.
Ron changes gear and steers the car down towards the railway line.
They skim above the track over a magnificent stone fire duct.
They look back with horror.
The Hogwarts Express is right behind them.
Ron jacks the wheel to the left.
The car swerves away from the track and swoops under the viaduct.
It tumbles between the stone arches, turning over and over.
The car door flies open and Harry falls out.
Harry has managed to grab the door handle.
He hangs on precariously above the train.
Stretches down towards him.
Harry reaches desperately for his hand.
Harry grabs Ron's outstretched hand and manages to scramble back inside the car.
Ron turns the wheel.
The train thunders on beneath a plume of white smoke.
As darkness falls, the car headlights pick out the towers of Hogwarts School.
Ron glances at Harry.
Harry's smile of delight fades as the car engine falters.
Ron struggles with the wheel as the car swoops out of control, zooming close to the brightly lit windows of the Great Hall.
It heads straight towards the ground.
They both wrestle with the gear stick.
Ron waves his wand desperately.
It snaps.
The car heads towards an ancient willow tree standing in the school grounds.
It plunges onto the top branches.
High in the tree, the car rocks precariously.
It falls backwards, but gets stuck halfway down.
Ron holds up his broken wand.
Hefty willow branches attack the car.
The vehicle rocks and the windscreen shatters.
A branch smashes through the back window.
Branches attack from all angles.
They are showered with broken glass.
The car suddenly tips forward, bounces from branch to branch, and falls towards the ground.
It lands on the grass.
Ron presses the accelerator and the car zooms away.
The tree lunges after them, but they escape its clutching branches.
Clear of the angry willow, the boys breath a sigh of relief.
Suddenly, the car doors fly open and they are hurled out onto the grass.
The boot opens and throws out their trunks and luggage.
Harry catches Hedwig's cage, and Ron peers anxiously at his pet rat.
The car starts.
The doors shut and the battered car drives itself across the grass towards a stone archway.
Harry and Ron race after it.
It rolls down a cobbled passageway and zooms away towards the forest, leaving Ron and Harry far behind.
Later, they haul their luggage into school and leave it on the landing.
They run upstairs.
Filch, the caretaker, with his cat, Mrs. Norris, is standing at the top of the stairs.
Hogwarts School is housed in a handsome castle surrounded by stone outbuildings and long Victorian greenhouses.
In one of these, a class of students stand waiting around a long bench filled with rows of potted plants.
A short, plump woman with curly, gray hair in a brown smock and a matching tall, pointed hat comes in.
She's wearing a pair of earmuffs.
The root looks like an ugly baby.
They cover their ears.
A boy collapses.
They pull out the screaming roots.
Showing off, Draco Malfoy pokes his finger into his Mandrake's mouth.
It bites him.
Furious, he throws it into a pot.
Later, in the corridor.
The ghost of Sir Nicolas floats into the Great Hall where the students are sitting at long tables.
Ron is trying unsuccessfully to mend his broken wand with sticky tape.
A boy takes a photograph.
A tatty gray owl flies down into the room.
Swooping low over the table, it heads for Ron, but collides with a bowl, scattering crisps everywhere.
Draco and his cronies snigger.
Ron takes a red envelope from Errol's beak.
Ron nervously breaks the seal on the red envelope.
To his embarrassment, it starts to scream at him.
The envelope folds itself into a mouth.
It turns to Ginny.
It blows a raspberry in Ron's face.
The howler shreds itself into tiny pieces and flutters down onto the table.
Hermione looks at Ron sympathetically.
A crowded classroom.
The door opens.
The girls are entranced.
He flashes his teeth.
The boys scowl.
He taps a cage.
He uncovers a cage full of tiny blue creatures.
He opens the door of the cage.
The pixies fly out in all directions.
They tear up books.
They lift Neville Longbottom into the air by his ears and carry him across the room.
The students flap at the pixies ineffectually.
The creatures hang Neville by the back of his cloak from the light fitting.
The air is full of torn pages and flying pixies.
One is pulling Hermione's hair.
Harry swipes it away.
Lockhart's spell has no effect.
A pixie grabs his wand.
A dragon skeleton falls in a clatter of bones and dust.
Lockhart turns and runs up a flight of stairs.
He grabs a photo of himself a pixie has snatched from the wall, then looks down at Harry, Ron and Hermione.
Lockhart runs out.
Hermione points her wand.
Above their heads, the pixies freeze and float harmlessly in mid-air.
Still hanging from the ceiling, Neville looks down at them mournfully.
The Gryffindor captain, Oliver Wood, leads his team out for an early morning practice.
He spots the Slytherin team.
Ron looks at Hermione.
Draco Malfoy steps forward.
Harry stares at him.
Their broomsticks.
Draco narrows his eyes and glares at Hermione.
Appalled, Ron pulls out his wand.
Ron flies backwards.
The Slytherins laugh.
Ron looks as if he's going to be sick.
Ron spits out a huge slug.
Colin takes a photograph.
Ron spits out another slug.
Harry and Hermione help Ron away.
Laughing, the Slytherins watch them go.
In Hagrid's cottage, he hands Ron a wooden bucket and sits down.
Hermione gets up and walks away thoughtfully.
Hagrid looks serious.
He takes Hermione's hand.
Her eyes full of tears, she gives him a faint smile.
In Gilderoy Lockhart's room.
Lockhart autographs a picture of himself.
Harry looks up as he hears a strange voice.
Lockhart looks confused.
Professor and student look around nervously.
Leaving Lockhart's room, Harry stops as he hears the voice again.
It seems to come from the stone wall.
Following the sound, Harry bumps into Ron and Hermione.
Harry runs off.
His friends hurry after him.
Harry is well ahead.
He turns into a wide corridor and starts to walk along it as Ron and Hermione catch up with him.
Suddenly, Harry stops them, and they look down in surprise.
At their feet, they see a line of spiders following each other.
They scuttle across the floor, up the wall, over the stone window sill, and out through a crack in the glass.
They see something else on the floor.
A pool of water reflects writing on the wall above.
Harry sees something else.
A cat, stiff as a board, is hanging by its tail from a lamp racket.
Students appear at each end of the corridor.
Seeing the cat, they stare suspiciously at Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
Colin prepares to take a photograph, but somebody stops him.
Draco reads out the writing on the wall.
Filch pushes his way through the gaping crowd.
He sees his cat.
He grabs Harry.
Dumbledore sees the writing on the wall.
He indicates Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
Lockhart stares at the cat.
Ron gives her a warning look.
Snape looks unconvinced.
Later, the staircases swing from side to side into different positions.
As the children go upstairs, Hermione turns to Ron and Harry.
A portrait on the wall nods in agreement.
A classroom.
A black and white bird becomes a glass goblet.
Ron waves his wand.
Scabbers becomes a goblet with a waving rat's tail.
Professor McGonagall seems uncertain.
She looks at the expectant students.
Hermione is concerned.
Ron turns to face a smug Draco.
Outside the classroom.
In the library, Hermione takes down a book from a shelf and shows it to Ron and Harry.
Hung with heraldic designs, tall spectator towers surround the oval arena of the Quidditch pitch.
The players swoop above the arena on their broomsticks, high over the heads of the excited crowd.
The Slytherin captain hulls the Quaffle towards the goal, but the Gryffindor Keeper knocks it safely away.
Ducking and diving, a Gryffindor grabs the Quaffle and flies with it.
It's knocked away and passed high in the air to a Slytherin.
Marking an opponent, Harry swoops around the back of a tower.
He hovers watching as well-aimed Slytherin pass sends the Quaffle flying straight through the goal.
The Slytherin supporters are ecstatic as the points go up on the scoreboard.
The professors applaud.
The Slytherin captain encourages his team.
They fly in formation.
Their green cloaks streaming behind them.
Harry ducks as a wood bat narrowly misses his head.
Lucius Malfoy and Snape are watching the match together, sitting in the professors' grandstand.
Looking out for the Golden Snitch, Harry and Draco, the two Seekers, hover above the arena.
A wooden Bludger almost hits Harry.
His captain shouts a warning.
The Bludger hurtles back.
The Bludger smashes Wood's broomstick to smithereens.
Then it turns and heads straight for Harry, chasing after him.
Hagrid is following the game through a pair of binoculars.
A new Bludger smashes through a tall tower.
Chasing after Harry the Bludger crashes through the towers, one by one.
Harry swoops lower to the grass, but the Bludger follows him closely.
Draco watches, a smug expression on his face.
The Bludger crashes through another tower.
Harry flies back over the arena to see Draco hovering in front of him.
Harry suddenly sees the Golden Snitch beside Draco's head.
They both duck as the Bludger hurtles past.
Then Harry heads for the Snitch, closely followed by Draco who elbows him out of the way.
Draco takes the lead.
The Snitch disappears under the wooden scaffolding supporting the spectators' stands.
Draco flies after it, closely followed by Harry who swerves to avoid a solid wooden beam.
The Snitch is too fast for Draco's grasping fingers.
Harry is still being chased by the heavy wooden Bludger.
Determined to stay ahead, Draco grits his teeth.
He looks around in dismay as Harry catches him up and gradually overtakes.
Now, close behind Draco, the heavy Bludger crashes into the wooden beams.
They weave over and under the wooden struts.
Draco catches up again and bashes Harry in the ribs.
They fly neck and neck, the Snitch just out of reach.
They flash past Colin with his camera.
He ducks.
The Bludger flies over his head and smashes through a wooden support.
Harry takes the lead again, the Bludger streaks past them both and weaves from side to side in front of them, smashing holes in the sides of the structure.
Suddenly, it turns and hurtles back towards them.
Draco's broomstick catches on a wooden strut.
He somersaults into the air and lands heavily on the grass of the arena.
Harry is still pursuing the Golden Snitch.
As he stretches out his hand to grasp it, a rogue Bludger smashes into his arm.
Wincing with pain, he grasps his broomstick between his knees.
He stretches out his good hand and grabs the Snitch.
Then he overbalances, falls off, and lands on his back on the soft sand beneath the goal post.
His friends rush to join him.
The Bludger hits the sand beside Harry.
Hermione's spell works.
The Bludger explodes in mid air.
Everyone runs towards Harry.
Lockhart pushes up Harry's sleeve.
Ron and Hagrid look alarmed.
Harry's arm goes completely limp and floppy.
He folds the wrist back on its self.
The hospital wing.
He drinks some medicine.
Late at night, Harry is lying fast asleep when a strange noise wakes him.
He opens his eyes and sits up.
He looks around, but the room seems empty.
Harry puts on his glasses and sees a figure sitting at the end of his bed.
His fingers are covered in bandages.
Dobby jumps down.
Harry gets out of bed.
He covers his eyes.
He blows his nose on his filthy garment.
He hits his head with the medicine bottle.
Harry grabs him.
Dobby clicks his fingers and disappears.
Harry jumps back into bed as shadows appear in the doorway.
A patient is carried in on a stretcher.
The patient is lifted carefully onto a bed.
Professor Dumbledore takes the camera from Colin Creevey's stiff fingers and opens the back.
The film explodes.
Hermione prepares a potion.
A ghostly girl in school uniform shouts in Ron's face, then hovers high above their heads.
She zooms into a cubicle and dives head first down the lavatory pan.
In the Great Hall, a long platform has been erected.
Lockhart strides along it.
He tosses his cloak to a group of excited girls.
Snape steps onto the platform.
Snape and Lockhart draw their wands and solemnly salute each other.
They bow and turn.
Each takes a few steps away.
Then they turn again and face each other.
Lockhart hurtles backwards down the platform.
He gets painfully to his feet.
He beckons to Draco who steps forward.
Looking worried, Lockhart passes Harry.
Grim faced, Harry and Draco approach each other.
They stand face to face.
Draco glares.
They salute each other, then turn and walk away.
The watching students hold their breath in anticipation.
Harry and Draco face each other along the platform.
Harry is somersaulted backwards.
Draco smirks at his cronies as Harry scrambles up and points his wand.
Draco's smile fades.
Draco is spun in the air.
As he crashes onto the platform, Snape hauls him to his feet and pushes him back towards Harry.
Draco points his wand.
A large snake appears in front of Harry.
It uncoils itself and moves towards him.
He backs away.
The snake flies into the air, then falls again.
It raises its head menacingly.
Harry moves slowly towards it and starts to speak.
The snake fixes its gaze on a boy in the crowd.
Harry speaks again.
The snake moves closer to the boy who backs away.
Harry speaks again.
The snake turns its head, staring at Harry and closes its mouth.
The snake is reduced to ashes.
Harry frowns.
He looks around the hall to find everyone staring at him.
Harry runs into the Gryffindor Common Room followed by Ron and Hermione.
He looks from one to the other.
In a classroom, students are working quietly at long tables.
Harry looks up from his books to see two girls staring at him curiously.
He glances across at Ron and Hermione, who both give him an embarrassed smile.
A group of students at another table look away quickly as he turns towards them.
Even Ginny Weasley refuses to catch his eye.
Harry puts down his quill and closes his book.
He gets up from the table and puts his books under his arm.
He senses that all the students are staring at him as he quickly walks out of the room.
In the corridor, Harry hears the disembodied voice again.
He follows the sound.
Harry looks around nervously.
Taking a deep breath, he walks slowly around a corner and stops at the horrible sight ahead of him.
Lit by flaming torchlight, he sees the ghost of Nearly Headless Nick hanging stiffly in mid-air, and a boy, Justin, lying petrified on the ground, his eyes wide open, his arms stuck out in front of him.
Harry kneels beside Justin and touches his stiff fingers.
Filch the caretaker appears stealthily behind him.
Still kneeling beside the petrified Justin, Harry notices a line of spiders quickly scuttling across the floor.
They follow each other up the wall, over the stone windowsill, and out of the open window.
As Harry watches them go, Filch returns with Professor McGonagall.
She hurries along the corridor towards Harry and regards the scene with horror.
She walks briskly away.
Harry follows her towards an archway with a fiery torch burning on each side.
Filling the archway is a huge stone statue of a griffin, with the head and outstretched wings of an eagle and the body of a lion.
Harry steps towards it.
Professor McGonagall spreads her long fingers and points them at the statue.
It slowly turns, and Harry steps onto the circular staircase behind it.
As the griffin continues to revolve, Harry is gradually carried upwards.
At the top, he steps off and walks down a passage towards a large wooden door.
A cluttered, circular room lined with glass cabinets.
The walls hung with moving portraits of elderly wizards.
The heavy wooden door swings open, and Harry peers cautiously inside.
Harry walks up some steps into a smaller room lined with shelves of old books.
On one of the shelves high above his head, he catches sight of a patched and shabby pointed hat.
As he stares at the crumpled hat, it starts to speak.
The hat scowls.
Harry turns as he hears a faint sound.
Behind him, a decrepit bird with tatty orange feathers is balancing on a perch.
Harry moves towards the bird and smiles at the odd-looking creature.
To his dismay, it suddenly bursts into flames.
Harry takes a step back.
The bird becomes a pile of ash below its perch.
Dumbledore appears at the top of a flight of stairs.
A tiny head pokes out from the pile of black ash.
The baby bird opens its beak.
The huge giant leaves the room.
Harry looks at him uncertainly, then shakes his head.
A pure white landscape.
High-stepping white horses trot out of the snow-covered forest, drawing handsome sleighs full of students well-wrapped against the cold.
In the Great Hall, now decorated with tall Christmas trees, the ceiling reflects the weather outside.
Huge snowflakes float above the heads of the students sitting at the long, polished dining tables.
Harry and Ron are sitting by themselves at the end of one of the tables.
Hermione carries her meal down the hall and sits opposite them.
Two cakes.
She holds up the cakes.
Followed by Harry, Ron peers around a statue in the corridor, makes sure the coast is clear, and lifts his crooked wand.
Harry waves his wand.
The two cakes float into the air.
Harry and Ron hide as Crabbe and Goyle appear with armfuls of cake.
They see the floating cakes and grab them.
They start to eat them, greedily smacking their lips, stuffing the cakes into their mouths.
They suddenly stop chewing.
Their eyes roll up and they both fall over backwards and hit the floor.
Later, in the girls' lavatory.
Hermione fills three glasses.
She hands one to Harry and one to Ron.
They look at their thick sludge suspiciously.
They put the hairs into the potion.
Ron pulls a face.
Clinking glasses, they all drink at once.
Ron takes a swig and heads for the nearest cubicle.
Hermione follows.
Harry drops his glass and clutches his stomach in agony.
He staggers to the marble sink and leans on it.
Looking down, he sees the skin on his hands begin to bulge and bubble.
Harry looks into the mirror.
His face is also erupting.
As he watches, he gradually turns into podgy Goyle.
He lifts his hand and touches his beefy face with plump fingers.
Pleased with the transformation, Harry smiles.
He turns and sees Ron coming out of the cubicle, transformed into fat-faced, dumpy Crabbe.
They stare at each other.
In a dark corridor.
Percy Weasley spots them.
Draco Malfoy stares at Harry.
Draco glares at Percy.
Draco gives him a withering look.
In the Slytherin common room, he slumps onto a leather sofa.
Looking around nervously, Harry and Ron sit opposite him.
Ron clenches his fist.
Harry nudges Ron.
Draco stares at Harry, then gets to his feet and looks down at him ominously.
To Harry's relief, Draco backs off.
Ron looks at Harry with surprise.
He picks up a small parcel.
He shakes the parcel.
Harry shakes his head.
Draco puts the parcel in his pocket.
Ron springs up.
Harry warns Ron, who looks at him in dismay.
Harry touches his forehead where his scar is reappearing.
Ron's hair is turning red.
They turn and run out of the common room.
Back in the girls' lavatory.
Myrtle floats past.
Still in uniform, Hermione has become a cat.
Outside, the lightning flashes.
Inside, Ron and Harry walk upstairs.
They stop as they find a pool of water on the landing.
They run through it.
In the girls' lavatory, all the taps are running.
Harry and Ron look around at the overflowing sinks.
They spot Myrtle sitting high up on a curved stone windowsill.
Ron flinches.
As she floats past, Harry notices a book with a limp, black leather cover lying on the stone floor.
He picks it up and shakes off the water.
The book is soaking wet.
Later, he sits at his desk and flicks through the dried out pages.
They are all blank.
He flicks through the book again.
He sees a name stamped in gold letters on the back.
He puts the book down.
Harry picks up a quill and dips it into the inkwell.
As he goes to write on the first empty page, a drop of ink falls from the quill.
It hits the paper and slowly disappears.
Harry turns over the page, but the ink blot has vanished.
He dips his quill again and starts to write.
His words fade into the paper, but other words appear.
Harry writes again.
The answer appears on the page.
Harry leans back, disappointed.
More words appear.
The blank pages turn themselves over quickly.
He picks up the book with both hands and stares at it.
A bright light shines out of the pages, dazzling Harry.
As he disappears, the book on his desk closes.
Stepping back into the past, Harry reappears in a school corridor.
He warily approaches the foot of a wide staircase.
A teenage boy in Hogwarts uniform is standing at the bend of the stairs, staring at the landing above.
Harry slowly goes up the stairs towards him.
Harry follows his gaze and sees four people carrying down a stretcher covered with a sheet.
As they pass Harry, he sees a limp arm sticking out from under the sheet.
A man with a long, brown beard appears at the top of the stairs.
Harry looks up in surprise.
Dumbledore gives him a searching look.
Riddle leaves.
He turns into a wide corridor licked by flaming torches, and hurries along until he reaches the top of a narrow flight of stone steps.
Harry follows him down the steps into a gloomy corridor with rough stone walls.
Riddle approaches a heavy wooden door.
He takes out his wand and looks around warily before throwing open the door to reveal a shadowy figure bending over a large wooden box.
A spider, bigger than a man's hand, jumps out of the box and scuttles past Harry and off down the corridor.
Harry stretches out his hand.
A wind seems to draw him away.
The door slams shut.
Back on Harry's desk, the book opens and glows with light.
Harry lands back in his chair.
In the school courtyard.
They look at each other guiltily.
As Hagrid walks towards the school, a boy rushes out past him.
They all run to the boys' dormitory and stop in the doorway.
The floor is covered with scattered books and papers, broken picture frames and feathers.
The mattress and pillows of Harry's four-poster bed have been slashed.
Drawers have been emptied out.
Hedwig the Snowy Owl sits on the desk as Harry searches through a pile of books on the floor.
The Gryffindor team.
They head for the pitch.
The hospital wing.
Madam Pomfrey is standing next to a bed where a petrified girl is lying.
Harry and Ron stare with horror at the stiff figure.
A hand mirror.
Hermione's eyes are wide open and staring.
Harry gently strokes her outstretched hand.
The Gryffindor common room.
She sweeps out.
Concerned, the students look at each other.
Harry turns to Ron.
In Hagrid's cottage at the edge of the dark forest, his dog Fang raises his head.
Hagrid picks up his crossbow.
He kicks open the door.
They take off the cloak.
His hand shakes as he pours it out.
Ron and Harry hide under the invisibility cloak.
Lucius Malfoy opens the door.
He steps inside.
He stops near the boys under the cloak.
Fudge goes to take it but Dumbledore stops him.
Dumbledore takes the scroll.
Dumbledore stares straight at Harry and Ron.
Lucius Malfoy looks around suspiciously.
He crosses to the door.
Giving the boys one last look, Dumbledore follows him.
Fudge looks confused.
Fudge stares at the huge dog.
They leave.
The boys reappear.
Lines of spiders are following each other up the wall and out of the window.
Harry lifts down heavy lantern.
The huge hound follows them outside.
They look up at the light from the cottage window.
The spiders are crawling down the wall and on to go the ground.
Ron watches the spiders nervously as they scuttle after each other away into the forest.
Harry starts walking.
Ron follows Harry reluctantly.
Fang drops ahead as they make their way through the dark night into the gloomy forest.
Fang sniffs the ground.
They are led deeper into the shadowy forest.
Terrified of spiders.
Ron walks on his toes trying not to trade on them.
Harry ignores him and keeps on walking.
Harry stops and holds up the lantern.
The spiders have led them to the mouth of a large tunnel dug into the sandy soil under the roots of a tree.
They are swarming into it.
Ron looks around nervously.
Harry stoops and goes into the tunnel with Fang just ahead.
Breathing hard Ron hesitates for a moment then follows his friend.
The tunnel lies dark and glow making it impossible to stand up right.
They do not see a very large spider which drops from the roof behind them silhouette begins the light from the tunnel entrance.
The tunnel gradually opens out into a large dimly lit hollow filled with twisted tree roots.
Harry and Ron follow the spiders as they swarm across it.
But the pass stops that huge hole in the ground surrounded by crumpled cobwebs.
The guide disappeared in the hole.
Unable to go further, the boy stopped a little away from it.
Harry holds up the lantern unsure of what to do next.
Harry and Ron back away.
A several long hairy legs emerge from the hole.
A huge spider as big as a double-decker bus holds it above over the edge and peers down at them.
It has a hairy face and its tiny eyes are set close together.
The boys stare open-mouthed.
Ron stops whimpering.
Ron points upwards with a shaking hand.
Harry looks up to see dozens of large spiders lowering themselves from the tree roots to dangle about their heads.
He nods politely to Aragog.
Harry swings the lantern.
He drops it.
They pull out their wands.
The spiders close in.
It's the Ford Anglia.
It stops and the doors fly open.
Fang jumps into the back seat, Ron into the front.
Harry dives for the passenger seat as the spiders attack.
Scattering spiders, Ron backs the car out around the tree roots and back along the narrow tunnel.
The car hurtles backwards out of the entrance and flies through the air.
The car hits the ground and comes to a halt dislodging the lost spider.
The spider grabs Ron through the open window.
Harry points his wand.
The spider is hurled backwards.
Ron looks at Harry with relief.
Harry's eyes suddenly open wide.
As he looks through the cracked windscreen, hundreds of huge spiders appear from amongst the shadowy trees and move towards the car, ready to attack again.
Ron starts the car and puts it into reverse.
Ron turns the car and accelerates.
The spiders scuttle close behind the car as it jolts away between the trees.
The floor of the forest is a seething mass of spiders.
Harry turns to Ron in desperation.
Ron grabs the gear stick.
Spiders lurk in the trees ready to jump on the car.
Huge spiders loom ahead of them.
They both heave on the gear stick.
The car rises into the air smashing into a branch and scattering spiders.
Steadying itself, the car flies high over the tops of the tall trees.
It zooms over the forest and lands heavily on the grass beside Hagrid's cottage.
They stagger out.
The battered car starts itself.
It reverses, changes direction, and drives away past Hagrid's cottage disappearing into the trees at the edge of the dark forest.
The sun rises behind the towers and turrets of Hogwarts School.
In the hospital wing, Harry puts some fresh flowers on the table by Hermione's bed.
He and Ron sit sadly beside their petrified friend.
Harry gently strokes her hand.
He notices something clutched in her clenched fingers.
A crumpled piece of paper.
A page from a book.
Harry looks puzzled for a moment.
Then he spots his reflection in the window.
Harry reads from the page again.
Harry and Ron hide in the second floor corridor where the teachers are gathering.
Lockhart swaggers up.
Lockhart swallows nervously.
He hurries away.
Harry and Ron look horrified.
The worried teachers leave.
Ron reads out the message written in blood on the wall.
They run to Lockhart's room.
Lockhart is packing.
He grabs his wand.
The boys point their wands at him.
He drops his.
The girls' lavatory.
Myrtle spots the three of them coming in.
She points across the room and floats away.
Harry crosses to the ring of sinks which are set around the base of an ornate marble structure.
He looks up and runs his hand along the ledge above.
He twists the tap.
He notices a raised decoration on the side of it.
A copper snake.
He runs his finger over it.
Lockhart looks aghast.
Staring at the tiny snake, Harry concentrates hard.
He opens his mouth and speaks.
They all step back as the heavy top of the structure rises into the air.
The sinks around the base divide and move out towards away from each other.
The sink decorated with the snake slowly disappears downwards.
As it reaches the ground, a heavy metal grill slides over it.
It uncovers a deep shaft.
Lockhart looks down into it, then backs away.
They grab him.
He almost falls down the shaft.
He stares down the shaft.
Ron gives him a push and Lockhart disappears.
They stare down after him.
Harry jumps, quickly followed by Ron.
The shaft becomes a smooth pipe.
They slide down it and fall onto a floor covered with animal bones.
They point their wands at Lockhart, who is covered in dirt.
Ron notices the bones on the ground.
Ron makes Lockhart follow Harry through a huge pipe.
The pipe leads to a low cave where something scaly is lying on the ground.
Lockhart faints.
Leaping up, Lockhart grabs Ron's wand.
Lockhart flies upwards, hits the roof of the cave and falls.
The cave roof starts to collapse.
The passage between Ron and Harry is completely blocked.
Harry peers through a tiny gap in the rocks.
Lying on the ground, Lockhart smiles vacantly.
He picks up a stone.
Ron grabs the stone and hits him over the head with it.
Harry climbs over fallen rocks.
Holding his wand in his hand, he starts to explore the cave.
On the wall ahead, he sees a circular hinged door decorated with a pattern of snakes.
He goes towards it, and starts to speak.
One snake glides around the circumference, unlocking the mechanism.
The heavy metal door swings open.
Holding his wand as protection, Harry walks warily through the circular opening of the long and narrow tunnel.
He climbs down the few rungs of a short metal ladder and jumps off at the bottom.
He finds himself in a long, damp chamber.
Ahead of him runs a wide paved path lined on either side by huge carved snake heads.
Their stone mouths gaping open.
Harry walks towards the massive carved head of a bearded man illuminated with a green light.
The head is reflected in the water beneath.
He sees the still figure of a girl lying on the wet stone floor.
He runs towards her and kneels beside her.
Her face is pale and her eyes are closed.
Harry looks around and sees Tom Riddle in the shadows.
He picks up Harry's wand.
Harry gets up and holds out his hand.
He writes fiery letters in the air with Harry's wand.
Harry stares at him.
They glare angrily at each other.
They both look up.
The phoenix drops something into Harry's hand.
the handsome bird swips away down the chamber.
Harry unrolls the crumpled sorting hat.
And looks at it in surprise.
Riddle stretches out his hand.
The mouth of the huge bearded statue starts to open.
Harry watches in fascinated horror as the huge stone mouth opens wider and wider.
A gigantic serpent slithers out.
Harry drops the hat and runs.
The serpent splashes through the water beneath the statue.
It slithers ominously after Harry.
Who trips and falls.
Harry cowers, protecting his head.
As the serpent prepares to strike.
Fawkes suddenly reappears.
The Phoenix flies at the serpent's head flapping its wings the brave bird pecks repeated the other creature's huge yellow eyes.
Riddle calls out angrily.
Fawkes swoops off.
Harry scrambles to his feet.
He backs away as the serpent threshes his head.
The serpent feelss his footsteps and lunges forward.
Harry makes a dash for it.
He splashes through a shallow pool with huge serpent.
heeds his head after him.
Harry runs down a gloomy brick tunnel disturbing rats which scuttle from under his feet.
Grounding a corner he finds to hurdle that the tunnel is blocked by an iron gating.
Harry desperately shakes the buzz.
But there are firmly fixed.
He turns.
The serpent appears behind him all those blocking the tunnel tract.
Harry backs against the buzz.
The gigantic mouth gates opened.
The dripping poisonous fangs are inches from Harry's face.
His got up in fingers find a loose piece of stone.
He throws it back along the tunnel.
Distracted the psycho serpent draws back.
To Harry's relief it withdraws its head.
It glides of backwards and makes it way down a different tunnel.
Harry follows it cautiously and watches it as it gradually slips away and finally disappears altogether.
He breathes a sigh of relief then quickly runs out of the dank tunnel and back to the main chamber.
He finds Tom Riddle standing next to the unconscious Ginny.
Harry kneels beside her.
The serpent waves up behind Harry.
Something glows inside the sorting hat.
A silver sword.
Harry grabs it.
He waits as the across the stone flow towards the gigantic curved head and starts to climb.
The serpent uncoils his huge body out of the water and lifts its head towards him.
Balancing on an edge, Harry lashes out with the sword keeping the creature.
It smashes its head blindly against the stone carving.
Harry almost loses his grip.
The serpent smashes against the stone head again.
Chunks of stone fall into water of the lowest.
Harry clings on with one hand.
He regained his footing and climbs up even higher.
Harry stands on the very top of the curved head.
He swings the sword wildly.
The serpent aims for the sound of the slashing sword.
A lucky blow makes contact.
But Harry is not of balance and drops the sword.
As it slips over curved stone surface, he makes a grab for it.
The serpent lunges.
And Harry thrusts the sword up to the loop of escaping mouse.
But huge poisonous fang breaks off and buries itself in his arm.
He pulls it out quickly.
Rearing into the act the serpent ranks in agony.
Its huge body lashes from side to side gradually growing more feeble until it falls and crashes lifeless to the ground.
Tom Riddle stares and disbelief at the dead serpent.
He looks up and narrows his eyes as Harry staggers towards him holding the bloody sword in one hand and the Poison Fang in the other.
Wincing with pain, Harry clutches the wound on his arm.
He takes the few steps more before dropping the sword and collapsing on to the ground.
Beside the lifeless head of his enemy the basilisk.
Harry touches Ginny's hand.
She is still clutching the diary.
Harry grabs the diary and opens it.
Harry raises the basilisk's Poison Fang.
Harry stabs the diary.
Riddle recoils of light pierces the hole in his chest.
Blood spreads over the page.
Harry stabs again.
Riddle puts a hand to his face as the powerful light for surges out of his body and lifts him of his feet.
Raising the fang again Harry closes the diary.
He stabs with all his might into the black leather cover.
In a flash of light, Riddle completely disintegrates leaving behind only a few faint sparks floating in the air.
Ginny suddenly wakes.
Looking confused, she sits up and sees Harry who is clutching his arm in pain.
Dumbledore's Phoenix whoops down and settles beside Harry.
The bird looks sadly to his face.
The handsome bird lowers its head with its orange plume and huge tears fall from its eyes on to Harry's arm.
Ginny watches her eyes wide with amazement.
As the Phoenix weeps vaporizes from the wound, the torn flesh begins to heal.
Harry looks up at Fawkes.
Later Lockhart, Ron, Harry, and Ginny cling to each other as the powerful Phoenix courage them to safety and away from the Chamber of Secrets.
Dumbledore's study.
Ron and Harry look at each other in amazement.
Ron leaves.
Harry nods thoughtfully.
The silver sword.
Harry takes the sword in both hands and read the inscription on the blade.
The door flies open.
Lucius Malfoy straps in with Dobby at his heels.
Lucius walks towards Dumbledore.
He glares at Harry.
Harry glances at Dumbledore.
He holds up Tom Riddle's diary.
Dumbledore smiles.
He turns to Lucius.
He kicks Dobby down the stairs, then hits him with a stick.
Harry puts the sword down on the desk and looks at the black leather diary.
Harry catches up with Lucius in the corridor.
He gives him the diary.
Lucius hands the diary to Dobby and leans close to Harry.
He gives a sneer and turns away.
Dobby still holds the diary.
Dobby finds the sock between the pages.
Harry pulls up his trouser leg and shows Lucius his bad ankle.
He pulls a wand from his stick and advances on Harry.
Dobby stands between them.
Dobby fix his hand.
Lucius is hurtles backwards.
The little elf folds his arms in triumph.
He turns and stokes away.
Harry smiles.
Everyone is gathered in the great hall.
He floats between the tables.
Filch stands by the door striking his cat.
Sitting the Gryffindor table Neville looks round.
Hermione stands in the doorway smiling.
Ron and Harry are thrilled to see her grinning broadly they get to their feet as she runs down the whole to join her friends.
She throws her arms around Harry and gives him a warm hug.
She goes to hug Ron then hesitates.
They both look embarrassed.
He shakes her hand.
They all sit down.
Professor Dumbledore arises.
Everyone applauds except Draco and his Slytherin cronies.
At the top table, Snape looks disapproving.
Professor McGonagall smiles warmly at Dumbledore as he takes his seat again.
The doors burst open and Hagrid appears.
He starts to walk down the long hall towards the top table.
Ron looks guiltily at Professor Dumbledore who nods benignly.
Reaching the Gryffindor table, Hagrid stops beside Harry, Ron and Hermione.
They smile up at him.
Harry gets to his feet and looks up fondly at his huge friend.
Hagrid gives a shy smile.
Harry throws his arms around the giant's waist and hugs him.
At the high table, Professor Dumbledore stands and starts to applaud.
Professor McGonagall joins him.
Harry, Ron and Hermione clap enthusiastically.
The whole school rises to its feet.
Draco stops Goyle and Crabbe from joining in.
The excited students crowd around Hagrid.
Overwhelmed, he stretches out and shakes as many hands as he could reach.
Colin takes a photograph.
Harry and Ron smile at Hermione.
The giant wipes away a tear.
Hagrid stretches out his arms.
He clenches his fists and raises his hands above his head acknowledging the applause.
Lighted candles float in the air high above the long tables which are already prepared for the feast.
Through the magnificent stained glass windows of the great hall of Hogwarts School, a glow of soft candlelight shines out into the night.
Two staring eyes.
Rufus Scrimgeour and the Minister of Magic is photographed at a press conference.
At home, Hermione reads the headlines in the Daily Prophet.
Harry Potter's, Uncle Vernon drags a suitcase to his car.
Harry watches from his bedroom window.
Outside the rebuilt Weasleys' home.
Ron stands staring over the wreath beds, towards the horizon.
His mother and sister Ginny, are busy in the kitchen.
Ron glances behind him briefly.
Then turns back to the wreath beds.
Hermione's parents are watching TV.
She looks at them sadly, and raises her wand.
The tip of her wand, glows.
The images of her Hermione, as a baby and a young child slowly fade from view in the photographs, on the mantelpiece.
Hermione's eye fill with tears.
She looks around to see herself disappearing, from every photograph in the home.
Harry's Aunt Petunia, sits in a car, staring blankly.
Uncle Vernon, looks nervously at the sky.
Dudley clambers into the backseat.
Harry stands alone on the path, watching them go.
Standing outside her front door Hermione looks back for a moment.
Then, with head lowered, walks down the path, and strides off along the street.
Her long wavy hair ruffled by a breeze.
She carries a small beaded bag.
A Death Eater, a dark shadowy figure zooms over the country side towards a large manor house on a country estate.
Descending to the ground.
The Death Eater walks towards the gates.
He waves his wand, and the gates evaporate allowing him to step through.
His face is sombre, his dark hair lank and shoulder length.
Behind him, the gates reappear.
Snape enters a bare store room, and climbs a flight of stairs.
People are seated at a long table in front of a blazing fire.
At the end of the table, a woman hangs horizontally in mid-air.
Snape sits close to Voldemort.
A huge snake grides on the floor, beside Pius Thicknesse.
Voldemort turns back to Snape.
She shrinks back.
He passes behind the Malfoys.
Lucius Malfoys turns.
Lucius' face twitches as he reaches for his wand.
His hand shakes has he holds it out to Voldemort.
Voldemort runs his fingers over it, then snaps off it's handle.
Snape watches keenly, as Voldemort discards the handle.
Lucius trembles as Voldemort points the wand at the floating woman.
The woman pleads with Snape.
Snape stares coldly.
Voldemort flicks the wand.
She falls dead on to the table.
Draco Malfoy winces.
A single tear falls from Charity's eye.
Voldemort strokes the snake.
It glides on to the table and slithers towards the dead woman.
It's tongue flickers.
It's mouth opens wide.
Albus Dumbledore falls from the astronomy tower.
The white-haired professor floats gently downwards.
Harry sits in his room, holding a shard of broken mirror.
He stares pensively at his own reflection, then sees an eye that is not his own looking back at him.
Hegwig is sitting patiently in her cage.
Harry packs a rucksack.
He takes a notebook with the letters RAB written in it, a gold locket on a chain, and a newspaper with Dumbledore's obituary by Elphias Doge.
Harry comes down the stairs, holding his rucksack and Hegwig's cage.
The living room is bare.
He opens the door of the cupboard under the stairs and peers inside.
He pulls a cord.
The light in the cupboard comes on.
Harry steps inside what was once his bedroom and slowly shakes his head.
He spots a toy soldier wielding a sword.
Harry picks up the metal soldier, and places it in the palm of his hand.
He studies it, his face solemn, then puts it back.
He opens the front door.
Hagrid, Ron, and Hermione.
Mad-eye Moody, Mr. Weasley, and Kingsley Shacklebolt follow them inside.
Hermione has plucked a hair from Harry's head.
She puts it in the flask Moody's holding.
Fleur Delacour's with Bill, the Weasley twins, Remus Lupin, and Nymphadora Tonks stand nearby.
Moody glares at Fred.
He sips, grimaces, passes the flask to George, and starts to shrink.
George also pulls a face and shrinks.
Mundungus drinks and grows a little.
The flask is passed to Fleur, then Ron, and finally, Hermione.
They all change physically until each one looks like Harry.
Moody retrieves the flask from Hermione, then joins the real Harry.
They both survey the six Harry Potter lookalikes.
He empties clothes onto the floor.
The real Harry steps out of the front door with Hedwig on his arm.
The snowy owl spreads her wings and flies away into the night sky.
Harry's in Hagrid's motor bag sidecar.
Some ride broomsticks.
Bill Weasley rides a thestral, a winged, skeletal horse.
Decoy Harrys on broomsticks sweep past Moody.
Hagrid rides his motorbike up into the air, forcing Moody to duck.
Two thestrals zoom over his head.
In the sidecar, Harry grips the windscreen as Moody passes on a souped-up broomstick.
Lightning flashes through the clouds.
Harry clings to the windscreen.
Death eaters appear and zoom over the decoy Harrys.
They race through the glowering clouds.
The decoys draw some death eaters away.
Hagrid presses a button.
A burst of flame shoots out of the rear, propelling the bike forward.
They land on the motorway.
Death eaters in pursuit.
Harry aims his wand.
A death eater crashes to the ground.
A caravan veers out of control and tips over.
Hagrid swerves into oncoming traffic to avoid it.
Still on the wrong carriageway, he heads into a tunnel.
A bus and a lorry approach.
Hagrid rides upside down on the tunnel roof.
Hanging out of the sidecar, Harry runs over the bus and drops back in when the bike returns to the road.
Hagrid slumps forward, hit by a bolt from a death eater.
Harry grabs the handlebars, forcing the motorbike up into the air.
Hedwig flies towards them and attacks the chasing death eater.
The owl swoops to attack again and is hit by a bolt of green light.
Hedwig tumbles earthwards.
The death eater pulls back.
Harry suddenly cries out in pain.
His face contorts as another ominous, dark figure closes in.
Harry slumps forward, his jagged scar illuminated by the bike's headlight.
As they speed between two lines of electric pylons, Harry's wand lit of its own accord.
The dark figure draws level.
The power flowing from Harry's wand connects with an equal force of pulsating energy.
The swirling vortex of light travels up Voldemort's wand, illuminating his face.
An explosion rocks the bike.
Harry presses the control button and the bike zooms away, spewing out flames.
The force propels Voldemort backwards.
The electric pylons collapse.
Harry, Hagrid, and the bike soar upwards beyond the clouds.
Hagrid comes to and takes control of the bike.
As Harry settles back into the sidecar, the engine fails.
They hurdle downwards.
Molly Weasley hears them break through the protective shield around their house.
They plummet towards the ground.
They make up bumpy landing in a reed bad.
They slow to a halt, near the Weasley's home.
The bike throws up a spume of water, soaking both rider and passenger.
Harry and Hagrid exchange a look.
They trudge towards the house.
Ginny follows her mother out.
Lupin, supporting George.
George's left ear is covered in blood.
He's carried inside.
They lay him on a sofa.
Lupin grabs Harry by the collar.
He pins Harry against the fireplace.
Lupin lowers his wand and lets Harry go.
He steps back.
Harry nods.
Lupin races out as Kingsley and Hermione return.
The two men point their wands at each other.
Kingsley lowers his wand and turns to Harry.
A thestral lands, carrying Bill and Fleur.
Nymphadora Tonks approaches with another Harry lookalike.
Hermione rushes to hug him as he changes back into Ron.
Lupin embraces Nymphadora.
Harry runs to embrace Hermione and Ron.
Mr. Weasley returns with Fred.
Fred runs indoors.
Mr. Weasley follows, anxiously.
Mrs. Weasley strokes George's brow.
Fred kneels down beside his twin.
The others gather round.
Ron looks anxious.
Fred leans towards George.
George has a large wound in his ear.
He points to his ear.
Bill steps forward, his face grim.
Stunned, everyone looks at each other in shock.
Lupin sinks onto a chair, his head lowered.
George looks solemn.
Giant Hagrid, his head wedged behind a roof beam, gazes blankly.
Harry turns away, his face sad and pale.
Later, Ron is asleep in bed.
Across the room, Harry is also asleep but dreaming of Dumbledore and the Horcruxes.
Cameras flash.
He sees the locket, the diary, a staring eye, a ring on Dumbledore's finger.
Dreaming of Voldemort and the old wand maker, Harry stirs and wakes.
Ashen-faced he lies on his back.
He stares up at the ceiling.
Harry snatches up his wand.
His rucksack on his back he secretly leaves the Weasley's house.
He starts to stride away.
Ron comes out of the house.
He follows Harry.
Harry stops and turns round.
Harry stares at Ron.
Ron looks back at the house.
Ron steps closer to Harry.
The two friends' eyes are fixed on each other.
Harry takes off his rucksack.
He drops it on the ground.
He turns away.
Ron picks it up and slings it over his shoulder.
They head back towards the house.
He reads a headline.
In moving picture, Dumbledore closes the massive doors of Hogwarts School.
The back of her beaded dress is unfastened.
He walks over and stands behind her, hesitating for a moment.
She half-turns to him.
He zips up her dress.
Ginny turns towards him.
They kiss.
George tiptoes in cleaning his teeth a bandage over his ear.
He sticks his toothbrush in his ear.
He picks up a cup and drinks.
Ginny spots him and breaks away from Harry.
George smiles and winks.
Harry gently strokes Ginny's arm as she slips away.
Looking slightly embarrassed, Harry grins.
George gives him a knowing look.
Mr. Weasley organizes the erection of a marquis outside the house.
The Weasley brothers and Hagrid use their wands to magically raise the huge tent.
A tall figure strides towards the house.
Hermione and Harry face Rufus Scrimgeour in the living room.
Ron joins Hermione and Harry on the sofa.
The Minister lays a flat pouch on the table.
Scrimgeour takes a document from his briefcase.
It floats in front of him opening as it does so.
He unfastens the pouch and hands the Deluminator to Ron.
Ron unwraps a small cylindrical metal object.
Ron presses a switch.
The light from two lamps is absorbed by the Deluminator.
He switches it off and on again.
The light flies back to the lamps.
Ron grins.
The others look blank.
He unwraps the Golden Ball.
The Minister holds it out in a cloth.
Harry reaches out.
He tentatively takes the Snitch.
He studies the Golden Ball.
Scrimgeour and Hermione both look expectant, then disappointed.
Harry turns the Snitch over in his hand.
The Minister's eyes flit from Harry to Ron, then to Hermione.
The wedding reception is in full swing.
A soft light spills out of the marquis.
A group of men keep guard outside.
Lupin strolls past them.
Harry stands in the covered walkway.
The Snitch is hovering beside him.
He grasps it in his hand.
He puts it in his jacket pocket.
He enters the marquis.
Fleur and Bill are dancing together between two lines of guests.
Butterflies flutter around them.
Harry smiles.
Glasses magically fill with Champagne.
Standing beside the table is tall dark-haired Madame Maxime.
Hagrid looks up at her admiringly.
A man with long white blonde hair dances theatrically with Luna Lovegood.
Ron stares.
Hermione appears looking delightful in a sleeveless red dress.
Harry spots Elphias Doge.
He heads towards him.
Luna's father wears a pendant, a triangle containing a circle with a vertical line through it.
Harry sits with Elphias.
The old woman scowls.
Harry stares at the old woman looking puzzled.
A bright white light appears in the sky.
Harry sees it and rises.
His eyes fixed on the approaching light.
The guests draw back.
The light bursts into the marquis.
Images and voices emerge from the hovering light.
The guests freeze.
The images disappear.
Bill comforts Fleur.
Elphias disapparates as Death Eaters arrive.
They attack the guests.
Ron grabs Hermione.
Harry heads for Ginny.
Lupin stops him.
Harry, Hermione, and Ron apparate in London.
Ron and Harry are holding Hermione's hands.
They follow her across Piccadilly Circus and down a crowded street.
A dingy alley.
They stand in a doorway.
Hermione puts her hand into her small, bottomless handbag.
She pulls out clothes.
They sit at a table in a cafe.
A waitress comes over.
She's wearing earphones.
The surly waitress struts off.
Two men enter.
Hermione indicates her bag.
The man fire wands.
In the kitchen, the waitress with the earphones sings to her music.
One man is down.
Hermione and Ron aim at the second behind the counter.
He misses Hermione who takes aim.
He falls.
The waitress comes out of the kitchen and gapes.
The waitress scurries back to the kitchen.
Ron uses the Deluminator.
It absorbs the light from the lamps.
Hermione uses her wand to lower shutters.
He strokes her cheek.
Hermione moves slowly towards the dark-haired man in overalls lying on the floor.
His body's stiffened, unmoving.
She points her wand with a shaking hand.
Her arm wavers.
The tip of her wand glows.
Dolohov's eyes remain open and stary.
Later they walk through a covered arcade.
Hermione suddenly stops.
In Grimmauld Place they watch.
Number 12, a tall terraced house, slides into position.
They enter the Black family home.
Lights come on in the hall.
They close the front door.
Gray smoke rises from the tiled floor in the long narrow corridor ahead of them.
It swells towards them.
A ghostly Dumbledore appears.
His hand reaches out.
The face disappears.
The smoke dissipates.
They freeze.
Hermione steps forward and raises her wand.
Harry dreams of Voldemort threatening the wand maker, Ollivander.
He wakes from his dream.
He's lying fully clothed on a sofa.
On a sofa opposite, Hermione's still asleep.
Her left hand's hanging over the edge almost touching Ron's hand.
Ron sleeps on the floor between them.
Harry hauls himself upright.
Using the glowing tip of his wand to light the way.
Harry mounts a staircase.
His shadow is cast on the wall.
He turns the handle.
Pushing the door open, he stands in the doorway.
Light floods in through a dusty window.
Inside the room he pulls a cord.
Two skeletal bats flap their bony wings.
Harry looks around.
On top of a chest of drawers he finds a dusty old book.
Harry looks back at the book.
Hermione enters another room.
It's a mess with a mattress falling off the bed.
Ron indicates the name of the door.
Harry reads the message in the locket.
Hearing a noise, they turn towards it.
Harry gets up.
He cautiously crosses the room towards a door in the corner.
Harry yanks it open revealing house elf.
Harry holds up the replica.
Kreacher stares at the locket.
Kreacher disapparates.
The Hogwarts Express puffs its way across a barren landscape.
In the train, Ginny sits with Neville Longbottom.
Death Eaters fly over the engine.
A dark figure stands on the tread.
He halts the train.
A student, Cormac, confronts the Death Eaters as they walk through the carriages.
Death Eaters approach Ginny and Neville.
Dressed in pink, Dolores Umbridge stands beside Pius Thicknesse.
A man is dragged towards the new Minister.
Mundungus sells stolen property.
He sees a group of snatchers.
He scurries away taking shelter in an alley.
The reward posters of Harry, Undesirable Number One are pasted on the walls.
Hermione plays.
Ron watches her with puppy dog eyes.
She glances at him.
He tries again.
Harry stares at the Snitch fluttering in front of him.
Hermione joins Harry.
He takes hold of the Snitch.
The Snitch's wings fold.
Harry stares at the Golden Ball.
They all look round.
Harry and Hermione run past Ron into the kitchen.
Kreacher has Mundungus round the head.
Dobby clings to his leg.
They close in on Mundungus.
He sees a photograph in a newspaper on the floor.
He picks it up.
He puts it on the table.
A city street with stone buildings.
Ron peaks around a corner.
Across the street behind Ron, Harry stands inside a small doorway.
A woman in a neat business suit approaches.
Ron pretends to tie his shoelace.
Harry casts a spell.
The woman faints.
Ron helps Harry to carry her inside.
They place her beside two unconscious men.
Hermione plucks a hair from the woman's head.
They each hold a cup of Polyjuice.
Harry, now morphed into Albert Runcorn, a man with dark hair.
He peeks out the door and steps out.
He's followed by Ron, now, a tall man with auburn hair and a mustache, Reginald Cattermole.
Then, by Hermione as the business woman, Mafalda Hopkirk.
Inside, Harry and Ron minus Hermione join the men.
The men are standing in lines outside cubicles.
An older man pushes past.
Ron enters a cubicle.
Harry waits for the next one.
He enters his cubicle.
He shuts the door.
He looks up to see Ron, now Reg.
He's peering over the dividing wall.
Harry looks at the pedestal, then at Ron.
Ron frowns.
Harry stands on the edge of the toilet.
He steps onto the bowl.
He pulls the chain.
He's flushed spinning down the loo.
He emerges in a green fireplace.
He steps out into a long tiled corridor.
Ron emerges further back along the corridor.
Everyone is walking in the same direction.
Ron and Harry join them.
Ahead, Harry sees guards in uniform.
Two guards apprehend a man walking behind him.
He joins a nervous-looking Hermione, both in their morphed shapes of Mafalda and Albert.
A statue shows muggles being crushed.
Ron has joined them.
They enter a lift.
Yaxley a Death Eater with a fair pigtail addresses Ron.
Yaxley walks away.
The gate closes.
The lift hurtles backwards, then the shoots up.
The gate slides open.
Harry pushes Ron out.
Ron stands in a circular atrium.
The lift reverses.
Then it descends.
Two men scuttle across in front of him.
The gate opens onto Umbridge.
She steps in.
She turns to Harry.
With stiff robotic movements, Harry gets out of the lift.
The gate closes.
Harry looks round at Hermione.
The lift backs away and descends.
Harry wanders along a curved corridor.
In a large open plan office clerks with wands flick copies of a booklet from their desks into trays.
He passes with a herd of minions carrying papers.
An eyeball rotates in a peephole.
Harry glances around.
Then he drops a small black object onto the floor.
It develops legs and feet.
It scuttles away.
It multiplies as it goes.
Each one produces a horn and a white up-key on the top.
They scatter among the desks in the open plan office.
They erupt causing a diversion.
Harry slips inside Umbridge's office.
The walls at the office are hung with China plates showing pictures of cats.
Harry raises his wand.
Umbridge's chair is upholstered in pink.
Harry notices two passive pink shoes placed neatly on the floor.
He crosses to the desk.
There's a silver teapot and a China cup and saucer on lace doilies.
He searches drawers.
He finds files with photos attached.
One is of Mad-Eye Moody with a red cross through the photo.
Another is of Professor Dumbledore crossed through in red.
The Supervisor turns.
Harry emerges from Umbridge's office.
Grim-faced, Harry turns and walks away.
He's sopping wet.
Harry and Ron leave the lift at courtroom level.
The man is hauled away by two guards.
Harry tugs Ron's lapel.
They walk towards the courtroom.
From a high bench Umbridge addresses a woman sitting below.
Umbridge wears the locket around her neck.
Mary sees Ron.
Harry pushes Ron forward into the courtroom.
Harry stays back himself.
Yaxley sits watching the proceedings.
Ron stands beside Mary.
Harry nods.
She holds it up.
Dementors hover above.
Harry's eyes are fixed on Umbridge.
He has spotted the locket around her neck.
His wand drops into his hand.
Umbridge sees it.
Hermione trembles.
His face distorts.
Ron zaps Yaxley.
Hermione grabs the locket from Umbridge.
She tosses it to Harry, now back to himself.
Yaxley sees them race off.
The hovering Dementors chase the group into the lift.
They're stopped by the closing gate.
Their arms and long-boned fingers reach through the metal grill.
They attempt to suck the souls out of the four in the lift.
Harry raises his wand.
The Dementors are forced back by the spell.
The lift zooms upwards.
The atrium is busy.
There are people upon walkways and others at ground level.
A lift arrives.
The group look around the atrium before stepping out into it.
Hermione and Harry are both back to themselves.
Ron still looks like Reginald.
Mary clings to him.
She takes Ron's face in her hands.
She kisses him on the lips.
During the kiss Ron shrinks.
He transforms back to himself.
Mary steps back.
The real Reginald appears in his vest and boxers.
He sees Ron.
Ron turns.
Uniformed guards chase Harry.
Yaxley arrives in the lift.
Hermione and Ron race after Harry.
Yaxley barges past people hurling bursts of energy at the trio, narrowly missing them.
Harry spins his wand at a pile of posters.
The reward posters for Harry Undesirable Number One swirl around the atrium almost engulfing Yaxley.
He brushes them aside.
The trio reach the corridor.
Yaxley aims another burst.
The spell disarms Yaxley.
Ron grimaces as he runs.
He glances back.
Yaxley is gaining on him.
Harry dives into a fireplace and is whisked up.
Hermione and Ron follow him with Yaxley close on their heels.
He grabs them on their journey upwards.
Their faces contort.
Yaxley loses his grip.
Sunlight filters down through a leafy canopy.
Still wearing Albert's clothes, Harry wakes.
He's lying on a carpet of dead leaves in a forest.
Glancing to his right he sees the locket.
Slipping off Albert's coat, Harry scrambles over to the locket and picks it up.
Hermione is on her knees by a shivering Ron.
Harry searches desperately in the bag.
He points his wand.
The bottle pops into his hand.
She treats the gaping wound on Ron's left shoulder with a few drops of the essence.
The wound seals itself.
Her hands stained with blood, Hermione sighs with relief.
She gets to her feet and walks away.
Harry takes her place at Ron's side.
Hermione braces herself.
She lifts her wand.
Harry looks at Hermione's bag.
A dim light glimmers inside a small tent.
Harry aims his wand at the locket.
Smoke rises from it.
All three walk towards it.
Ron has his left arm in a sling.
The locket lies unscathed amongst the dead leaves.
Hermione tries.
The locket is engulfed in flames.
It remains unmarked.
It's thrown across the clearing.
Looking weary and ill, Ron gazes down at it.
It flies even further away.
Harry stares angrily at the shining metal.
The flames die out.
The locket remains firmly closed.
Harry picks it up.
He slips the chain over his head.
He tucks the locket inside his shirt.
Hermione looks anxiously at Harry.
Harry stares at them both, then turns abruptly and walks away.
Harry sits outside the tent, studying his piece of broken mirror.
He spins round, hearing a radio being tuned in the tent.
Harry catches sight of Hermione, down in a hollow.
He lifts the locket from under his shirt and holds it in his hand.
The locket twists.
He connects with Voldemort.
He's with the wand maker, Gregorovitch.
A boy thief escapes with a wand.
Gregorovitch cowers on the floor.
Voldemort kills him.
Harry gasps for breath.
Hermione walks slowly up to him, looking concerned.
He glares at the tent.
Hermione glances away.
He looks impatient.
He stomps off.
Harry reaches inside his shirt.
He struggles to hold a chain over his head.
He hands her the locket and chain.
She studies it.
She walks slowly away from Harry, whose head is lowered.
Hermione sits on guard by a campfire in front of the tent.
Hearing something, she stands up.
In the tent, Harry, his head resting on a table, wakes up.
He glances over at the sleeping Ron.
He picks up the radio.
Outside of the clearing, Hermione tip-toes towards the invisible, protective shield.
Her eyes peeled, she gazes into the gloom.
Narrowing her eyes, she peers towards the dark shadows under the trees.
In the tent, Harry studies the Marauder's Map.
Snape's footprints appear near the headmaster's study.
Hermione continues to prowl.
She freezes as men approach, one carrying a woman.
He passes by.
A second man follows with someone slung over his shoulder.
A third stops, just past Hermione.
He retraces his steps, until he stands directly in front of her.
She stands stalk still.
He can see no sign of her, the tent, or the campfire.
The second man drops the body from his shoulder.
The man does as he's told.
The three of them walk away.
Harry joins Hermione.
Hermione looks in the direction the men went.
Her face is solemn.
They walk towards the tent.
Ron steps out of the tent.
He sees the two of them together.
He looks pale and haggard.
As they journey through fields and past devastated homes, Ron grows more drawn and suspicious.
They're camped under a bridge.
Harry stands alone a little distance from them.
Ron stays glued to the radio.
Now, they're camped on the shore of a lake.
At night, Ron lies awake.
In the tent, Hermione is cutting Harry's hair.
She stops suddenly.
She consults a book.
The light whisks away from the lamps.
Hollow-eyed, Ron appears holding the deluminator.
He returns the light.
Harry lunges at him.
The two friends glare at each other.
Ron tugs off the locket and throws it down.
Ron picks up his bag and scowls at Hermione.
She looks distraught.
She glances round at Harry, then back to Ron.
She hesitates.
Ron glowers at Harry.
His mouth curled in a snarl, Ron storms out.
Hermione follows.
Harry paces uneasily.
His face troubled, Harry remains alone inside the tent.
Next morning, Harry steps out of the tent and sees Hermione standing by the water's edge, her back to him.
She gazes anxiously across the wintry landscape.
Harry waits as Hermione ties her scarf round a slender tree trunk.
The locket dangles from her hand.
She walks through dead bracken and stands beside Harry.
He takes her hand.
They apparate on a stony clifftop.
Hermione sadly wipes her eyes.
Harry moves away discreetly as she turns to hide her tears.
High on the limestone clifftop, he creates a protective shield.
Hermione sits huddled on a flat-topped rock.
Harry stands alone, looking towards the setting sun.
A dim light glows inside the tent.
The wind ruffles Harry's hair as he walks over the rocks.
He turns, hearing the faint sound of the radio.
The tiny tent is spacious inside.
Harry sits beside a table piled with camping equipment.
Hermione crouches by a bunk bed, listening to the radio.
Harry leans back in his chair, deep in thought.
Her knees drawn up to her chest, Hermione stares blankly at Ron's radio.
He crosses over to her.
He holds out a hand.
Her face solemn, she takes both his hands and pulls herself up.
Harry puts his arms around her neck.
He unfastens the locket.
He throws it onto the lower bunk.
His eyes fixed on hers, he draws her away from the radio.
She looks pale and wistful.
Still holding her hands, Harry starts to move to the music.
They twist back and forse and she half-smiles.
Hermione grins and they start to move a little more imagistically.
He spins around.
They both smile and spin.
His puts arm around her, they danse more closely.
They hold their hands again.
Laughing they start to jive.
Hermione spins into his arms.
Harry leans his head against her.
She rests her chin on his shoulder.
They turn slowly, holding each other close.
Hermione's smile fades.
They stop dancing.
They meet each others gaze.
Hermione sighs and walks away.
Harry watches her go.
Hermione sits reading on the flat-topped rocks.
Inside the tent, Harry lies on a bunk.
His arms folded, idly watching the snitch hovering above his head.
He reaches out his hand.
The fluttering wings slow then fold away.
Harry draws the snitch down and holds it against his mouth.
He looks at it.
Writing appears on the golden surface.
I open at the close.
He hands it to her.
She puts down her book and studies the writing.
Harry sits beside her.
A triangle containing a circle, with a vertical line through it.
She frowns at the drawing.
She ruffles his hair, and smiles at him.
Harry nods and grins after her, as she walks away.
A few snowflakes drift past.
They apparate in a quaint, snow covered village.
Wearing winter clothes, they wander down a deserted street.
She takes his arm.
Two villagers come out of an inn behind them.
A little gate leads into the churchyard.
She turns to him.
In the graveyard, surrounding the church.
Harry and Hermione, study the name on the graves.
The snow gently falls.
Hermione stops at a grave marked with a horizontal slab.
She brushes snow from it with her gloved hand.
Carved on the slab, is a triangle containing a circle, with a vertical line through it.
She wipes away more snow, and finds a name engraved underneath.
He is standing at the far side of the graveyard.
He looks down at a plain, upright gravestone.
Hermione crouches down.
Taking out her wand, she draws a circle in the air.
She produces a wreath of white roses.
Harry wipes his nose, with his sleeve.
He gazes at the grave.
Comforting him, Hermione rests her head on his shoulder.
Hermione turns.
She spots a dark figure watching them from a short distance away.
Harry sees an old woman.
She is wearing a knitted cape, with a hood.
She turns, and totters slowly away.
They follow her up the street.
Harry slows and stops, beside a burned out, roof-less house.
He looks over the gate, at the overgrown garden.
He recalls Voldemort's attack.
Both bodies lying on the floor.
Harry's joy is set.
They turned to find the old woman, close beside them.
Harry approaches her.
She stares at him.
Inside a dark house, Harry takes a matchbox from Bathilda.
He lights a candle.
The wizened old woman studies Harry's face.
He captures sight of something over her shoulder.
As Bathilda turns her attention to Hermione.
Harry holds up the match beside a framed photograph.
It's of the young thief, who stole Gregorovitch's Elder Wand.
Bathilda gazes at him, then picks up the candle.
She eases her way past him.
Hermione looks anxious.
He follows Bathilda.
Leaving Hermione in the filthy living room.
The tip of his wand, lights up.
Illuminating his way up the stairs.
In the living room the tip of Hermione's wand is also glowing.
She picks up a book with a note attached to the cover.
Hermione lifts the note, to read the title.
She turns the book over.
It is a moving picture of a smirking Rita.
Upstairs, Harry reaches a dingy bedroom.
The old woman is waiting for him.
He sees her looking at the locket around his neck.
She indicates something, across the room.
Downstairs, Hermione walks into another dark room.
Her wand, the only source of light.
She disturbs a swarm of buzzing flies.
Upstairs, Harry examines a photograph album on a dressing table.
The old woman's face contorts.
She becomes cadaverous.
Harry spins around.
She disintegrates.
Downstairs, Hermione spots blood on the ceiling.
The snake lunges.
Harry fends it off with a chair.
Downstairs, Hermione trips and falls.
The snake hurls itself at Harry.
Smashing him, through a brick wall into a child's bedroom.
The light on the ceiling sways.
The snake wraps itself around Harry.
He picks up a brick from the rubble.
He smashes the snake's head with it.
It slithers off him.
Harry hauls himself back through the wall.
Hermione comes up the stairs.
The snake attacks again.
Hermione flourishes her wand.
The snake is hit and falls down the stairs.
Harry's wand, dropped in the struggle, is lying at the top of the stairs.
Hermione reaches out and grabs it.
They watch fearfully.
The snake rears up and attacks.
Hermione's spell stuns the snake.
She and Harry disapparate through the window.
A peaceful winter's day.
A tree-lined river flows through a countryside white with frost.
Hermione fetches water from the river.
She walks up the steep bank.
Later, she sits reading by a smoking campfire with her back leaning against a tree.
Harry comes out of the tent, which is pitched behind her.
They're both wearing warm winter sweaters.
Hermione has a blanket over her legs.
She looks up at him.
He looks around.
They both look thoughtful.
She hands him Rita Skeeter's book.
He looks at the photographs.
She frowns.
A worried expression on her face, she lifts the blanket and reveals his wand in pieces.
Harry sits keeping watch, leaning back against the tree.
The blanket over his shoulders, he holds Hermione's wand.
He takes out the piece of broken mirror.
He gazes into it.
The mirror reflects an empty room.
He drops the mirror onto the ground.
He wraps the blanket tight around his shoulders.
Behind him, a dim light glows inside the tent.
Clutching Hermione's wand, Harry looks deep into the forest.
His eyes widen as he spots a light in the distance.
It comes closer.
Glowing ever brighter, the light takes the shape of a translucent silvery doe.
Harry shrugs off the blanket.
He gets to his feet.
He moves cautiously towards it.
He stops and watches.
The doe turns and moves slowly away.
Harry follows.
The doe stops and glances back, then moves on.
The doe trots across a stretch of frozen water with a light covering of frost.
The shape of the doe shrinks to a ball of light.
The tip of Hermione's wand glows as Harry steps gingerly onto the ice.
As he nears the light, it floats towards him, then sinks below the ice.
He crouches down.
He wipes away the frost from the surface.
A sword lies gleaming under the ice.
Harry looks around cautiously, then aims the wand.
Harry stands up.
The ice above the sword cracks.
A hole appears.
At the water's edge, Harry removes his clothes, except for his boxer shorts.
He still has the locket around his neck.
He treads barefoot and wearily across the frost-covered ice until he reaches the hole.
He places Hermione's wand on the edge and submerges his right foot in the water.
Shivering, he gazes at the sword, takes a breath, and drops feet first through the hole in the ice.
He swims down towards the gleaming sword.
He reaches out to grasp it.
Suddenly, he grabs the chain of the locket.
He struggles for breath.
He wrestles with the chain as it drags him back.
Choking, pressed up against the ice, Harry can't find the opening where he entered the water.
He hammers with his hands on the underside of the ice and kicks at it with his bear feet.
A shadowy figure walks over the ice above him.
Harry's movements slow.
His eyes close as the figure enters the water behind him.
A hand grabs the sword.
Harry is hauled across the ice.
He's leant against a fallen tree as the figure moves away still clutching the sword.
Harry leans forward and grabs his glasses.
He sees Ron.
Harry sets the locket on the fallen tree.
Drenched, Ron stares awkwardly at Harry, then looks at the ground.
Ron prepares himself.
The locket springs open.
Harry and Ron are knocked to the ground.
A huge black cloud swirls over Ron.
A swarm of spiders.
Ghostly images of Harry and Hermione speak to Ron.
Ron sees naked images of Hermione and Harry kissing passionately.
Ron seethes as he watches them.
The sword in both hands, Ron races towards Harry, who cowers.
Ron strikes the locket with the Sword of Gryffindor.
The black cloud and the images disappear.
Harry stares at the open locket.
Ron is on his knees.
He lets go of the sword.
Harry sits on the ground beside him.
She wakes.
Hermione comes out of the tent as Harry approaches.
He indicates Ron.
He smiles.
Ron grins broadly.
Hermione glares, stomps over and wrenches the rucksack from Ron's shoulder.
She turns back to Ron.
Ron holds up the open locket.
He glances at Harry.
He blinks and looks away.
Scruffy and bedraggled, Ron gives Hermione a faint smile.
She faces him, her arms folded, a set expression on her face.
In the tent.
Ron and Harry are watching a flame in a jar.
Hermione sits outside.
He gazes at the flickering flame.
Harry takes it.
The flame flared and died.
She ignores Ron, rushing past him.
She addresses Harry.
She shows him Rita's book.
Ron stands shoulder to shoulder with Hermione.
He puts up his hand.
She glances at Harry, raising her eyebrows, and walks off.
Crestfallen, Ron lowers his hand.
A vast expanse of open heath land with hills in the distance.
Ron trudges ahead of Hermione and Harry.
A crooked house stands alone.
The plums float in the air like orange balloons.
The top half of the door opens.
Xenophilius peers out.
Harry moves towards the door.
Inside, they sit in a cluttered room, each holding a mug.
All four raise their mugs.
They drink in unison.
He holds up the pendant.
Harry glances blankly at his friends, then back to Luna's father.
She finds the right page.
Hermione glares at him.
Xenophilius stares out of a window.
Animated shadow puppets act out the story.
Xenophilius moves from the window and finds a piece of paper.
He takes a pen and draws a vertical straight line.
He looks up, brushing back his long, straggly hair.
Next, he draws a circle which contains the bottom half of the wand.
Finally, he draws a triangle, surrounding the wand and the stone.
Harry nods.
Hermione looks anxious.
He examines the teapot.
He scuttles down the spiral staircase.
Ron picks up his rucksack.
They find Xenophilius by a window, muttering to himself.
He rushes to the front door.
He holds it shut.
Looking desperate he turns and faces them.
They stare at him blankly.
His hand over his heart, Xenophilius approaches Harry.
He pushes the hair back from Harry's forehead, revealing the jagged scar.
He fixes his eyes on Harry.
Death eaters hurtle through the sky towards the house.
Harry, Hermione, and Ron throw themselves to the floor.
Flashes ricochet off the building as Xenophilius runs outside.
Xenophilius is hit and falls to the ground.
In the house, the three friends clasp hands and disapparate.
The house is destroyed.
They apparate in a forest.
Ron walks past Hermione.
He stops as a man stands up in front of him.
Three others appear.
Scabior, the Snatcher who smelled Hermione's perfume, leans against a tree.
She turns and runs.
Leaving their bags behind, Ron and Harry follow her.
Half a dozen Snatchers set off in pursuit.
Scabior joins the chase.
The Snatchers fire with their wands and start gaining on them.
Harry glances behind, trips and falls.
He scrambles to his feet.
Scabior is chasing Hermione.
A Snatcher aims his wand at Ron.
It extends with a chain which winds itself around Ron's legs, tripping him up and binding his ankles together.
A young Snatcher is in close pursuit of Harry.
Harry ducks under a fallen tree.
A Snatcher leaps down in front of him.
Harry stumbles.
He recovers and runs on.
A chain loops around a tree close to Hermione.
She fires an explosive from her wand, sending a Snatcher to the forest floor.
Another appears in front of her.
She turns and aims her wand at Harry.
He falls heavily.
The young thief.
Voldemort dissolves in a swirling black cloud in front of the old Grindelwald.
Harry gasps for breath.
Hermione snatches off his glasses.
They're captured.
Hermione's spell has disfigured Harry's face.
A Snatcher turns.
A Snatcher, Greyback, tosses away Harry's wand.
Approaching Hermione.
Scabior touches her cheek and sniffs her neck.
Scabior, his wand in his hand, walks over to Harry.
He stops and studies him.
Lying on the ground, Ron lowers his head.
Scabior scrutinizes Harry's disfigured face.
Harry's face is bloated, and his right eye is closed.
Scabior grips his collar.
The path towards the Malfoy Manor house.
Scabior releases his hold as they near the gate.
Hermione and Ron are close behind, each escorted by a Snatcher.
Bellatrix Lestrange waits eagerly behind the iron gate.
Scabior pulls back Harry's fringe to reveal the scar on his forehead.
Bellatrix has Harry on his knees in front of the Malfoys.
She looks expectantly at Draco.
Narcissa Malfoy pulls Lucius back.
She points at Hermione.
She spots the Sword of Gryffindor.
A Snatcher holds it.
She's hurled backwards.
Her wand shoots out a snake which twists round Greyback's neck.
A whip coils around Scabior.
She drags him along the floor.
Scabior and Greyback stagger away.
Bellatrix grabs Ron.
Peter Pettigrew, Wormtail, locks Harry and Ron in a cellar.
They run to the gate and clutch the bars.
A figure emerges from the gloom of the vast, crypt-like cellar.
Ron's deluminator lights a lantern.
Hermione is pinned to the floor.
Bellatrix sticks her wand in Hermione's arm.
Ollivander, the wand-maker.
Harry holds the piece of broken mirror.
He looks into the mirror and sees someone else's eye.
Ron's deluminator absorbs the light as Wormtail returns.
He points his wand at the goblin, Griphook, who stands beside Ollivander.
Griphook walks towards the gate, he looks back, then climbs the stairs.
Ron flicks on the delimunator.
As the light returns, a small figure apparates.
Dobby stands between Luna and Ollivander and takes their hands.
The three disapparate.
The cellar is dark.
Wormtail opens the gate.
He is struck from behind.
He falls on his face.
Dobby waits holding Wormtail's wand.
The Snitch flies to Harry from a fallen Snatcher.
A strand of hair falls onto Hermione's coat.
Bellatrix cuts Griphook with a dagger.
She looks down at Hermione.
Ron with a wand.
Harry catches Bellatrix's wand and aims at Lucius.
Bellatrix has Hermione.
Her dagger's at Hermione's throat.
Bellatrix grins.
Harry's back to normal.
Lucius glares at Draco, who freezes.
With a sneer, his father pulls up his own shirt sleeve to reveal the Dark Mark tattoo on his arm.
Lucius raises his right hand, about to lay it on the mark.
Bellatrix presses the dagger against Hermione's throat.
They all look up.
High above, Dobby unscrews a chandelier.
Hermione runs into Ron's arms.
Harry snatches the wands from Draco and stuns Lucius.
He magics Narcissa's wand away.
Dobby stands on a balustrade, his arms outstretched.
The trio and Griphook with the Sword of Gryffindor grab hold of him.
Bellatrix flings her dagger towards them as they disapparate.
The dagger vanishes with them.
They apparate on a beach.
Harry staggers to his feet.
His trousers covered in wet sand.
He hugs Hermione and Ron.
Dobby is bent over clutching his chest.
Harry catches the elf as he falls.
He removes the bloody dagger from Dobby's chest.
He lays it down on the sand.
Harry cradles Dobby like a child.
Dobby's tunic is covered in blood.
Dobby grips Harry's hand.
Dobby's head lolls back, and his huge wide eyes glaze over.
Harry gazes down at the small still body, lying in his arms.
Luna kneels down beside him.
Harry nods.
Luna gently closes Dobby's eyes.
Harry's face is rapt with grief.
Hermione and Ron watch helplessly.
He lowers his head and gently rocks the house elf's tiny body.
Harry digs a grave amongst the tall grass on the sand dunes behind shell cottage, overlooking the beach.
Ron and Hermione join him.
She is carrying Dobby's body, wrapped in a white cloth.
Harry tenderly takes the elf's body from Hermione.
The three friends kneel, and fill in the grave with sand.
Hermione rests her head on Ron's shoulder.
They sit with Harry aside Dobby's grave.
The rippling waters of Hogwarts lake are surrounded by dark mountains.
On the far side, a tomb rests on the tiny island.
A large marble block slides back.
Two supports beneath it tumble away.
A dark figure stands beside the marble slab covering the grave.
A figure raises a wand.
The slab cracks into pieces.
Voldemort leans down into the tomb and peers close to the dead, whose body shows no sign of decay.
A grey beard trails down his chest.
His hands are clasped around the black Elder Wand.
Voldemort slides the wand slowly from Dumbledore's hands.
He sneers triumphantly at his dead enemy.
He gazes at his prize and caresses it with his long fingers.
He grips the wand.
Voldemort thrusts up his arm.
A massive force of energy shoots from the tip of the wand, illuminating the dark sky.
A metallic shield with the letters WB moves slowly forward out of darkness.
A heap of skulls and bones is piled high behind iron railings.
From the grinning mouth of a skull emerges the head of a large snake.
Flickering its tongue, it slithers down onto a narrow path and moves silently between the gravestones in a dark and overgrown cemetery.
The reptile's lithe body shimmers as it glides swiftly along the uneven path.
The snake slides past a stone statue of a skeleton with huge wings, draped in hooded cloak and holding a scythe.
Metallic silver letters appear in the dark, glowering sky.
A huge dilapidated house stands silhouetted against the night sky.
A light is switched on in a cottage nearby.
A disheveled old man lights the gas and puts on a kettle.
He takes the top off a tea pot, and picks up a tea bag.
Through the kitchen window, he notices a light in the big house.
He throws down the tea bag angrily.
He takes a bunch of keys from a hook, and leaves the cottage, lighting his way, with a large torch.
He stumbles across the uneven ground, towards the big house.
He hauls himself, unsteadily up the stone steps to the large wooden door.
Inside the house, the strong beam of the old man's torch flickers over dusty wooden paneling and a grandfather clock festooned with cobwebs.
Grasping the wooden banister, he starts to climb the un-carpeted stairs, his torch casting eerie shadows over the paneled walls.
He turns off his torch, as he hears voices from an open doorway.
The snake appears and slithers through the doorway towards a figure hidden in an armchair.
The old man is engulfed in a flash of green light.
In the cottage, the kettle boils.
Harry jerks awake.
Ron flops back onto his pillow.
Mr. Weasley leads his group through a wood.
A boy drops down.
They climb a grassy slope.
The faint glow of dawn appears in the sky.
They all touch the boot which begins to spin like a Catherine wheel.
They are pulled with it, spinning faster and faster, into a bright light.
Ginny, Hermione, Ron, Harry, and the twins let go, and land heavily.
Harry looks up and sees Mr. Diggory, Cedric, and Mr. Weasley hiking sedately down to Earth.
Cedric helps Harry up.
They follow the others, along a cliff top, overlooking the sea.
The sun rises, as they look down on a gigantic campsite.
Jugglers entertain the crowd, as even more tents are erected.
People on broomsticks, fly dangerously low.
Mr. Weasley leads them to a shabby two-man tent.
Harry gawks.
Inside the tiny tent, he sees a vast interior furnished with carpets, beds, and sofas.
Harry smiles.
As evening falls, they join the excited crowds in the magnificent Quidditch stadium.
The spectators take their seats in the stands, many of them wearing colorful national costumes.
He stops Harry with his walking stick.
He smacks at Harry.
Spotlight beams illuminate the packed stands.
Hermione and the twins wear green and white scarves.
Mr. Diggory takes them to the highest level of the stadium.
The seven Irish players zoom out in formation.
Green and white smoke streaming from their broomsticks.
Fireworks explode in the shape of a spiritedly Leprechaun dancing a jig.
The opposing team in black and red fly high above the pitch.
One turns a somersault.
A gigantic image of the handsome Bulgarian player is projected on to the towering stands.
He hovers in front of a waving flag proclaming the name Krum.
Krum raises his fist confidently.
Cornelius Fudge uses his wand to amplify his voice.
A bright ball of light springs from his wand, and plunges down towards the arena.
Back in the tent, George and friends celebrate the Irish victory.
Mr. Weasley lights a lamp.
Mr. Weasley hurries them out of the tent.
The camp is in chaos.
Many of the tents are on fire.
The flames leaping high into the darkness.
Harry sees ominous cloaked figures with skeleton masks and tall pointed hats, carrying flaming torches.
He starts to run.
Wrestled away from Hermione and the others, Harry dodges through the panicking crowd.
In the confusion, Harry trips and falls.
As he struggles to get up, flying feet knock him aside.
Light from the burning tents flickers across his face, as he lies unconscious on the muddy ground.
Everything goes black.
A full moon shines down on the devastated camp.
A lone figure strides between the smoking tents, kicking the smoldering remains.
The figure points a wand into the dark sky and casts a spell.
A huge, ghostly, green skull appears, with a snake emerging from its mouth.
It floats above his head.
The young man bears his teeth with an evil smile of satisfaction.
Harry slowly regains consciousness and sits up.
He sees the shadowy figure approaching through the smoke.
Harry gets to his feet and runs away from the dark figure.
The figure runs off.
Seeing the skull, Harry clutches his scar.
A group of ministry wizards.
They gaze up nervously at the ghostly skull, a dark mark still hovering above their heads.
Ron counts his money.
Harry nods to a young Chinese girl.
She gives him a shy smile.
Harry scratches his eye brow.
Hermione leans forward.
Harry addresses an envelope to his godfather, Sirius Black.
He puts the letter in to Hedwig's beak.
The snowy owl flies out of the train window, and sows away over a lake, as the Express steams on towards Hogwarts.
Through a bright gap in the clouds, a huge coach appears, drawn by seven winged white horses.
Students crowd into the school cloisters and gaze up in excitement as it swoops down towards them.
Hagrid guides the horses into land.
He dives for cover as the coach flies low over his head.
A tall mast flying a slender pennant emerges from the center of the lake.
A huge, golden galleon rises majestically to the surface, water spilling from its decks.
Huge sails are unfold, and the great ship glides smoothly towards the school.
Gasping for breath, Filch, the caretaker, runs down the hall and whispers to Professor Dumbledore.
Filch runs out again.
A troop of elegant girls glide into the hall, dancing.
Their blue silk uniforms flatter their slim figures.
Ron gawks at the girls.
Tiny bluebirds flutter around them.
Seamus gapes as the headmistress passes.
Madame Maxime is over eight feet tall.
She towers over Professor Dumbledore.
The visitors drop a graceful curtsy.
Madame Maxime smiles graciously, her face framed by a huge fur collar.
She extends her hand.
Dumbledore reaches up and kisses it.
The Durmstrang students stride dramatically into the hall, wearing Slavic, military-style uniforms.
Each carries a long staff.
Sparks fly as they spin them round and strike the stone floor.
Two of them hurtle forward, somersaulting high into the air.
A handsome student with close-cropped hair strides past.
Ron recognizes his Quidditch hero.
A student blows a ring of fire.
Wearing a long, white coat and a Russian hat, High Master Karkaroff greets Dumbledore.
A storm rages around Hogwarts.
A dark, disheveled figure limps through the rain towards the school.
Hagrid has accidentally stabbed Professor Flitwick's hand.
Dumbledore steps forward.
As Crouch rises, a figure limps into the hall.
Lightning flashes from the enchanted ceiling.
The figure raises his wand, and the lightning retreats.
Ron recognizes him.
Moody has a scarred face and a large, protruding false eye fixed to another eye patch.
It swivels erratically and lingers on Harry.
One of Moody's feet is encased in a metal boot.
Moody takes a swig from a hip flask.
Mr. Crouch nervously addresses the students.
Dumbledore raises his hand towards an ornate, jeweled cabinet.
The cabinet dissolves, revealing an ancient stone goblet.
A bright blue flame leaps from its wide mouth.
The flame continues to burn.
The Durmstrang galleon strains at its moorings.
The blue flame flickers eerily in the great hall.
Igor Karkaroff enters cautiously and carefully closes the door behind him.
Moody writes on the blackboard.
He advances.
Ron looks petrified.
Hermione looks apprehensive.
Moody takes a lid from a glass jar.
He scoops out a spider.
He produces his wand.
The spider grows bigger.
It lands on a desk, then on a boy's head.
It crawls up a girl's arm.
Moody flicks his wand.
The spider hovers over Ron.
It drops into Ron's hair.
The spider clamps itself on Draco's face.
It hits the glass.
Controlled by Moody's wand, the spider hovers helplessly over a bucket of water.
Moody carefully directs it to the palm of his hand.
Neville puts up his hand.
Neville steps towards the table.
The spider writhes in agony.
Neville looks distraught.
His face is twisted with angry.
Hermione cries out.
Moody lowers his wand, withdrawing the curse.
Neville's eyes are tight shut.
His face is clammy.
Moody places the spider in front of Hermione.
She shakes her head.
A flash of green light.
The spider dies.
His mad eye swivels round to stare down at Harry, who looks up at him warily.
Moody nervously licks his lips and takes a swig from his hip flask.
Harry regards him thoughtfully.
Leaving the classroom, Ron follows Hermione and Harry down a circular stone staircase.
Moody appears as they spot a sad figure.
Neville reluctantly follows Moody back up the stairs.
The rain runs like tears down the face of a woman in a stained-glass window.
Students splash across the courtyard with cloaks over their heads to protect themselves from the rain.
The goblet of fire stands in the great hall.
Eligible students cross the circle of light drawn around it on the floor, reach up, and place their name into the blue flame.
Cedric Diggory's supporters push him forward.
He steps through the circle and puts his name into the stone goblet.
Ron gives Cedric an encouraging wave.
Fred and George run into the hall in triumph.
They each swallow the contents of a test tube and jump inside the circle.
They put their names into the goblet.
Engulfed in blue flames, Fred and George are flung out of the circle.
They both have white hair and long, white beards.
They grapple with each other, rolling over and over on the stone floor.
Hermione shakes her head, sits on the stone steps, and opens a book.
Accompanied by a Durmstrang student and their teacher, Karkaroff, Viktor Krum approaches the circle.
With a serious look on his face, he strides forward confidently and puts his name into to goblet.
As he turns away, he catches Hermione's eye.
She gives him a faint, admiring smile.
The students assemble excitedly in the great hall.
Dumbledore raises his hand.
The flames of the burning torches around the hall gradually die down one by one.
Everyone looks expectant.
Arm outstretched, Dumbledore approaches the goblet of fire.
The blue flame turns red.
A piece of charred parchment flutters down into his hand.
Dumbledore reads the name written on it.
Viktor punches the air.
His friends congratulate him.
He rises from his seat and shakes Dumbledore by the hand.
He leaves the hall.
The flame flares again.
Dumbledore reads a second piece of smoldering parchment.
Beaming with pleasure, Fleur shakes Dumbledore's hand and follows Victor.
Smiling broadly, he shakes Dumbledore's hand and follows Victor and Fleur out of the hall.
Crouch uncovers a magnificent crystal and silver trophy.
Snape steps forward alarmed as the goblet of fire flares once more.
Dumbledore turns in surprise as the blue flame leaps high into the air.
The flame turns red.
Karkaroff glares.
Sparks fly from a piece of scorched parchment.
It flutters down into Dumbledore's hand.
He reads it up.
All eyes turn to Harry, who sits down nervously.
Hagrid shakes his head.
Hermione forces Harry to his feet.
Ron glowers as Henry walks hesitantly towards Professor Dumbledore.
The piece of parchment is still smoking at the edges.
Dumbledore thrusts it into Harry's hand.
Looking stunned, Harry walks the length of the hall, uncomfortably aware of unfriendly looks from his fellow students.
Snape narrows his eyes as Harry passes him.
Professor McGonagall pats his shoulder reassuringly.
Mad-Eye Moody gives him a hard stare.
A pair of iron gates opens in front of Harry.
The other three competitors look surprised to see him.
Dumbledore bursts into the room, followed by Karkaroff, Snape, Crouch, Moody, Professor McGonagall, and Madame Maxime.
Dumbledore grabs Harry.
Every eye in the room is focused on Harry.
He swallows nervously.
Outside, rain pours from the mouth of a gargoyle.
In a high tower, the Hogwarts professors meet and consult together.
Professor McGonagall looks anxiously at Dumbledore.
He puts his wand to his temple.
A thread of memory drifts into a bowl.
A parchment with Harry's name surfaces.
Harry sits on his bed.
Ron hangs a wet towel beside the stove.
Ron climbs into his four-poster bed.
Ron turns his back.
Harry scrambles into bed.
Ron looks across at him.
Harry takes off his glasses and pulls up the covers.
Ron lies awake, his face buried in his pillow.
The competitors pose for a photo.
She looks at Harry.
In a tiny room, a green quill hovers over a notebook.
Rita pushes Harry inside.
The quill writes.
She winks at him.
Harry gestures to the quill.
A small black owl swoops over Hogwarts School.
It heads towards a tall, isolated tower.
Harry is waiting in the owlery as the black owl flies in through the window.
He takes the note from its beak, unfolds it eagerly, and reads.
Harry sucks his pecked finger.
On Saturday night, he hurries down into the Gryffindor common room.
The room is deserted.
He starts to read.
Turning the page, he finds Rita's article.
He crumples up the newspaper and throws it into the fireplace.
Sparks fly out of the fire.
The image of a face forces itself through the glowing embers.
Harry looks nervously over his shoulder as he hears the sounds of a door.
A shadow moves on the stairs.
Ron appears in his pajamas.
Ron turns and goes back up the stairs.
Harry looks into the embers again, but serious his face has gone.
The newspaper starts to burn.
Harry reads the headline.
Then the paper is consumed by the flames.
Neville is collecting plants in the lake.
Harry opens a book.
He waves to Ginny, Ron, and Hermione.
Harry gets up.
Ron whispers to Hermione.
She approaches Harry.
Hermione looks exasperated.
Ron whispers to her again.
Ron scowls at Harry as the trio leave.
Late that night in the forest.
Harry stares at him.
They both stop.
Hagrid looks around.
He hurries forward.
Harry puts on the invisibility cloak and disappears instantly.
Harry grimaces.
Huge flames burst from four enormous crates standing in a clearing.
Madame Maxime gapes and moves nearer.
Harry throws off the cloak.
A dragon breathes a burst of flame.
They bar Harry's way.
He pushes past.
Harry finds Cedric.
He takes Cedric aside.
Moody watches, unseen.
Harry spots Ron.
Ron and Seamus stalk off.
He drops down from a tree.
Draco goes for his wand.
Moody turns Draco into a ferret.
The ferret is flung up and down helplessly.
He puts it down Crabbe's trousers.
Moody winks at Harry as the ferret emerges from Crabbe's trouser leg.
McGonagall breaks the spell.
Draco reappears.
Moody chases him off.
Moody pulls a face behind her back.
Harry follows him.
Moody opens the door to his cluttered room.
He hobbles painfully towards a chair and sits down.
To Harry's surprise, he unfastens his artificial metal leg and places it on a stand.
He leans back in his chair.
Harry stares at a cloudy mirror.
Moody kicks a stool towards him.
Harry looks blank.
In a wooden arena on a craggy hillside, Fred and George take bets from their fellow students.
The Triwizard competitors pace restlessly in their tent as Dumbledore announces the contest.
Harry goes to a gap in the tent.
She bursts in and throws her arms around his neck.
Rita and her photographer.
Rita looks Krum up and down.
She strokes his cheek with her quill.
Fleur puts her hand into the bag and takes out a tiny dragon.
She shows it fearfully to the towering Madame Maxime.
Krum picks out a dragon.
Cedric takes his turn.
Harry puts his hand into the bag.
Filch fires the cannon by mistake.
Cedric swallows hard and takes a deep breath.
In the competitors' tent, Harry sits alone in nervous trepidation.
Harry walks out into a circular arena hewn from the rocky hillside and surrounded by a stone wall.
High in the wooden terraces, Ron and Hermione stand amongst the cheering spectators.
Harry resembles a gladiator in a Roman Arena.
He glances around cautiously.
Harry moves towards a gleaming golden egg standing amongst the gray rocks.
He has knocked off his feet by the force of the dragon's tail.
The dragon's massive head and body are covered with sharp, lethal spikes.
It blasts flame.
Harry leaps for safety up a high rock.
The tethered dragon flies to the end of its long chain.
It lashes out angrily, giving Harry a vicious blow with its tail.
He is flung onto the rocks below.
The Hungarian Horntail flaps its huge leathery wings.
Harry scrambles to his feet.
He dodges another burst of flame.
The crowd flinches.
Karkaroff laughs.
As the dragon flaps towards him, Harry climbs out of range.
It lunges after him, baring its teeth.
Taking a shelter behind a huge rock, Harry sees his trusty broomstick zooming towards him.
The dragon belches out another burst of flame.
Harry leaves the rock, leaps away from the dragon, and jumps onto his Firebolt as it swoops down into the arena.
Harry's friends cheer him on.
The angry dragon stretches out its neck, breaking the chain.
The creature flies free.
Followed by the furious dragon, Harry zooms around the arena.
He bursts out through the stands over the heads of the startled onlookers, wings tearing through the canopy, scattering professors.
They scramble to their feet.
Rita Skeeter straightens her spectacles.
Pursued by the dragon, Harry flies over the valley towards the school.
He narrowly avoids colliding with a tall stone tower.
The dragon launches after him, as Harry swoops low of the Hogwards.
A faint mist is rising.
As he flies, Harry checks over his shoulder.
But the dragon is nowhere to be seen.
As Harry rounds one of the towers, the dragon appears and knocks him off his broomstick.
Harry falls onto a stiff roof and hurtles downwards.
He stops his fall by grabbing desperately onto a narrow parapet.
The dragon settles on a nearby turret.
Harry dangles from the parapet, his gloved hands clutching a spiked pinnacle.
He sees his broomstick far below.
The dragon scrabbles across the turret onto the roof above Harry.
The pinnacle snaps.
Harry plunges down onto a windowsill.
He hangs on desperately as the sill collapses under him.
Dislodging tiles, the dragon claws its way across the roof towards him like a colossal bat.
Harry scrambles up and reaches high above his head for a broomstick.
The dragon gets closer and closer.
The Firebolt is stuck fast.
Harry frees the broomstick as the dragon lashes out, smashing the window to pieces.
Harry falls from a great height, pursued by the Horntail.
He reappears out of the mist once again astride, his broomstick.
A dreagon's close behind.
A burst of flame sets the end of Harry's broomstick on fire.
It continues to smolder as the dragon zooms after Harry through a stone arch.
Ahead is the massive viaduct.
Harry flies towards it and hurtles through one of the narrow openings at the top.
As the dragon tries to bat, its huge wings smash into the brickwork.
Harry and the Horntail plunge into the valley far below.
The crowd of spectators in the arena scan the sky with nervous anticipation.
Dumbledore and Fudge look very concerned.
Hagrid shields his eyes as he looks up into the empty sky.
A tiny speck appears in the distance.
Hermione screams.
Harry hovers for a moment, then aims the Firebolt down towards the gleaming golden egg, and triumphantly snatches it up.
In a packed Griffindor common room the painted characters in the pictures join in the applause.
The twins hoist Harry onto their shoulders.
The egg glows as Harry twists it open.
They clap their hands over their ears.
Ron appears in the doorway.
Harry closes the egg.
Ron faces Harry awkwardly.
The twins usher everyone away.
Hermione shakes her head, bemused.
Gray clouds are reflected in the waters of the lake.
Owls fly in and out of the great hall.
Parvati and Padma Patil walk together down the length of the hall.
They pass the table where Harry and his friends are eating breakfast.
Harry sees Cho at the next table.
As her friend points him out, Cho smiles.
Embarrassed, Harry dribbles his drink.
Hermione reads the paper.
The small boy lingers at Ron's elbow.
Hermione looks curious.
He unpacks a strange brown garment and holds it up.
White frills.
The twins try it.
Ron gets up reluctantly, his shirt hanging out.
Filch starts the gramophone.
The twins grin.
The girls get up enthusiastically.
But none of the boys moves.
Then Neville stands up.
Later, Harry and Ron find Neville waltzing by himself around the bedroom, wearing his pajamas and a pair of shiny dancing shoes.
Ron and Harry approach Cho and her friends.
The boys grin inanely, then move on hurriedly.
He smiles at a group of Beauxbatons girls who stalk off.
Hagrid and Madame Maxime.
Madame Maxime reaches down to pick something from Hagrid's beard.
She pops it in her mouth and licks her fingers seductively.
Hermione, Harry, and Ron sit beside the lake.
Krum strides past wearing a singlet, followed by a group of giggling girls.
Hermione looks flustered.
In class, Ron whispers to Harry.
Snape clips his ear.
Fred passes Ron a note.
Fred throws the crumpled note at Angelina.
He points to her, mimes dancing, then points to himself.
Angelina gives him a thumbs up.
Fred winks at Ron.
Snape swipes Ron and Harry with a book.
She gets up, hands her book to Snape, and returns.
She stalks off.
Snape hits them again.
A blanket of snow lies over Hogwarts.
Hands pushed deep inside his pockets, Harry runs up the stone steps to the owlery.
He stamps the snow off his boots.
At the door, he almost bumps into Cho coming out.
They sidestep each other in the doorway.
Harry swallows hard.
Harry lies moodily in the common room, clutching the golden egg.
Ron is led in by Ginny.
Harry runs after Parvati and Padma.
The evening of the Yule Ball.
Lights shine from the Durmstrang galleon on the frozen lake.
Excited students gather in the entrance to the great hall.
The girls wear long gowns, the boys dress robes.
In his room, Ron adjusts his tatty robe.
He stares at himself in a mirror.
Harry comes in wearing a smart black robe and a white bow tie.
He sniffs his armpit.
He looks in the mirror again.
On the stairs.
Ron hurries Padma away.
She follows reluctantly.
Harry spots Cho with Cedric.
Parvati sees Hermione slowly descending the stairs.
Harry turns his attention from Cho and sees Hermione looking like a princess in pink.
Her hair softly curled, she smiles at him shyly.
Krum is in dress uniform, a fur-trimmed cloak over his shoulder.
He clicks his heels and bows.
Hermione takes his arm and gives Harry an excited little wave.
The huge doors swing open.
The Triwizard competitors and their partners process into the great hall.
Looking very apprehensive, Harry walks stiffly beside Parvati.
Padma stares at Hermione.
Snow falls from the enchanted ceiling.
Clutching Harry's arm, Parvati waves to her friends.
He clutches her waist.
Parvati guides him around the floor.
Harry lifts her awkwardly into the air and swings her around.
Dumbledore leads Professor McGonagall onto the dance floor.
Filch dances with his cat.
Viktor Krum swings Hermione high into the air.
Cedric dances past with Cho.
Neville confidently takes to the floor with Ginny and spins her around with ease.
Exposing his metal leg, Mad-Eye Moody sits in an alcove, wearing a kilt and a ferret sporran.
He swings from his hip flask and gives a shudder.
Hagrid sidles over to the towering Madame Maxime and gives her a wink.
He gestures towards the dance floor.
Later, the pace hots up.
The hall is jumping.
Tiny Professor Flitwick is passed over the heads of the dancers.
To Parvati and Padma's annoyance, Harry and Ron won't dance.
The four of them sit glumly at the end of the room.
Hermione dances wildly with Victor.
Ron and Harry glare at Krum.
Parvati is asked to dance.
She gets up with relief.
Padma looks exasperated.
Ron spots Krum kissing Hermione's hand.
Viktor leaves her.
She spins around, her face flushed.
Smiling happily, she sinks down beside Harry, Ron, and Padma.
Ron gives a great sigh.
Hermione gets up.
She goes to speak, thinks better of it, turns her back, and walks off.
Padma glares at Ron.
Padma gets up and stalks off.
Later, Ron tries to reason with Hermione.
She wipes away a tear.
The boys escape up the stairs.
Hermione flops miserably on the bottom step, takes off her party shoes, and rubs her feet.
Neville is still dancing with Ginny.
Hagrid rests his head on Madame Maxime's chest.
His hand slips to her bottom.
She puts it firmly back on her waist.
Disturbed by the bell, crows rise into the darkness.
They swoop between the tall towers past one or two lighted windows.
Snowflakes whirl outside the boys' bedroom.
A large black crow flutters down onto the windowsill and peers in.
Asleep in bed, Harry is having a nightmare.
He sees the dark cemetery with the winged stone statue.
The cloaked skeleton clutches the long scythe.
Behind it, stands the snow-covered mansion.
Along the dusty paneled corridor, light shines from the open door.
Inside the room, Wormtail hovers as the young man kneels beside the armchair, revealing the dark mark tattooed on his arm.
The large snake whispers to the figure hidden in the armchair.
A green flash.
Harry's eyes spring open.
Neville appears, his dancing shoes slung around his neck.
He waltzes off.
Harry smiles.
Hermione looks concerned as Harry walks away.
Harry looks weary.
Harry nods.
Cedric gives Harry a knowing smile and goes.
In the prefect's bathroom, Harry slips off his dressing gown and lowers himself into a bath the size of a small swimming pool.
He leans back under the bubbles.
A mermaid in a stained glass window holds back her long golden hair to watch him.
Harry turns to the golden egg standing on the side of the bath.
He opens the eggs.
He slams it shut again.
A ghostly figure appears out of the lavatory.
She floats towards him.
She dives into the bubbles.
Harry grabs the egg.
He twists it open under the water.
The egg glows brightly.
Harry takes a deep breath and sinks down after it.
He bursts to the surface.
She peers mischievously into the water.
Harry attempts to preserve his modesty with some bubbles.
Myrtle leans her head on his naked shoulder.
In the library.
Ron puts the golden egg on the table.
He and Hermione leave reluctantly.
Harry piles up his books and tidies his notes.
Moody leaves them alone.
Harry looks at Neville apologetically.
At the lake, Fred and George take bets.
Neville hands over the gillyweed.
Three tall spectator pavilions have been erected in the lake.
Harry chokes on the gillyweed.
Three of the competitors dive in.
Moody pushes Harry in after them.
Gasping for breath, he sinks down amongst the metal supports of the pavilions.
He clutches his neck.
Gills develop on either side like a fish.
He looks down and sees his feet turn into flippers.
He held up his hands as they become webbed.
Seamus stares down into the water.
Harry suddenly hurtles up out of the water.
He somersaults in the air like a dolphin and vanishes again under the surface.
Harry kicks out with his flippers and swims through the water weed over the rocks-strewn bed of the lake.
It falls away in front of him into a deep ravine.
He dives into the murky darkness.
Arms held close by his sides.
Fish swim beside him as he moves easily through the water.
He's wearing shorts and a singlet with Potter written on the back.
His wand is in a sheath, strapped to his leg.
He heads through a narrow channel, peering uncertainly through the cloudy water.
He swims through ropes of dark green weed hanging like curtains in front of him.
Harry looks over his shoulder and spots a figure behind.
Fleur is swimming strongly, a delicate filmy veil over her mouth and nose.
Her long fair hair streams behind her.
Something whips past her face.
Fleur certainly disappears, pull down out of sight.
Harry is knocked aside by something as it flashes past.
Recovering himself, he catches sight of a silvery tail vanishing into the Forest of Weed.
Harry follows the merperson as it leads him above the jagged rocks on the bottom of the lake.
Far ahead, he sees the ruins of a stone archway.
He kicks out strongly with his flipper feet.
Tall columns rise around him like an underwater cathedral.
He swims past ruined archways, their outline softened by algae and water weed.
Four people in black cloaks float upright in front of him - - Ron, Hermione, Cho, and a small girl with long fair hair.
Their eyes are closed, their face is blank.
Unfriendly looking merpeople lurk, ominously close, carrying sharp tridents, and lashing their tails.
Harry unties the rope around Ron's ankle.
He moves toward Hermione.
A merman prepares to attack.
Cedric appears.
A transparent, bubble of air over his mouth and nose, he frees Cho with his wand.
The merman is scared off.
Cedric taps his watch.
Harry nods and draws his wand to release Hermione, but a sharp, pointed trident is held at his throat.
Harry turns as the open mouth of a grinning shark looms towards him.
The shark has human legs and arms and wears red shorts.
It flashes past, bites through the rope, and swims off with Hermione.
Harry takes a firm grip on Ron's arm.
He looks at the girl with long, fair hair, now, floating alone.
Harry looks cautiously at the merpeople hiding in the weeds.
He uses his wand to release the little girl.
Eight minutes to Cedric and Cho are the first to the surface.
They swim ashore.
Dumbledore and Crouch hurriedly descend the stairs of the pavilion.
Hermione appears on the surface with the shark.
Immediately, its head transforms into Viktor Krum.
Wrapped in a dressing gown, Fleur watches the water anxiously.
As Harry struggles towards the surface with Ron and the little girl, he notices his hands are no longer webbed.
He's suddenly attacked from below, a horde of vicious little squid-like grindylows with sharp teeth and many legs nip at his ankles.
He tries to kick them away.
He releases his grip on Ron and the little girl and pushes them up towards the surface.
Harry clutches his neck.
Hundreds of the creatures attack him.
He's almost suffocated by their tentacles.
Struggling to fight them off, he pulls out his wand.
Sparks fly, stunning the grindylows and sending them flying in all directions.
Harry sinks to the bottom.
Twelve o'clock.
Ron and the little girl bob to the surface.
Fleur leans out over the water and stretches out her hand.
His gills now gone, Harry drifts helplessly.
He looks up at the patch of light above his head and with the last desperate effort, raises his wand.
He rockets out of the water onto the landing stage, gasping for air.
Fleur kisses Harry.
She kisses Ron.
She wraps a towel around him.
Dumbledore puts his wand to his throat.
Karkaroff is furious.
Harry is with Crouch.
Wild-haired Moody glares at Crouch with his mad, rolling eye and flickers his tongue.
Crouch stares back into Moody's scarred face, then walks away looking confused.
Moody swigs from his hip flask.
In the forest at night.
Harry sees a black hat lying on the ground.
He clutches the scar in his forehead.
A man lies on his back among the fallen leaves heaped-in and lifeless.
Harry approaches Professor Dumbledore's room.
The door is closed.
Moody opens the door.
On his way out, Moody gives Harry a long look.
The tadpole-like licorice snaps, attract Harry's attention.
He takes a handful.
They nip his fingers with their sharp, little teeth.
He drops them onto the floor and stomps on them.
Behind him, the doors of a cabinet swing open.
A blue light glows from a large, stone vase in front of a flicking mirror.
Harry slowly walks towards it.
Reflected in the mirror, he gazes down into the shining blue bowl.
The cloudy surface swirls.
Harry sees a glow at the bottom of a deep shaft.
He finds himself falling down into a crowded courtroom.
He lands in a chair, sitting next to someone he recognizes.
The man next to him shakes hand with Professor Dumbledore right through Harry.
A disheveled man appears in a cage in front of the judge, Mr. Crouch.
Rita Skeeter gasps.
Moody aims his wand at a young man hurrying from his seat.
Barty is dragged to the bench.
His tongue flickers like a snake.
Mr. Crouch is transfixed, horrified.
Harry falls from the bowl to the floor in Professor Dumbledore's room.
He puts his wand to his temple and drops a thread of memory into the pensieve.
Leaving Dumbledore's room, Harry hears voices from the open door of Snape's store room.
Harry sees the dark mark on Karkaroff's arm.
Karkaroff leaves quickly.
He shows Harry a small bottle.
Tiny Professor Flitwick conducts the school band.
The stands are crowded with flag-waving supporters.
An enthusiastic, Mr. Diggory runs in, encouraging the crowd to cheer as an embarrassed Cedric enters the arena.
Fleur follows.
Her classmates perform a cheerleader routine.
Draco and his crony support Viktor Krum, who appears with Karkaroff.
A concerned Dumbledore accompanies Harry who looks around nervously.
Standing in front of a tall hedge, Dumbledore addresses the crowd.
They gather around Dumbledore.
Harry stands before a narrow opening in the hedge.
Mr. Diggory hugs Cedric tearfully.
Harry gives Cedric a friendly nod.
Once again, Filch lights the canon too soon.
Moody pats Harry encouragingly on the shoulder as he tentatively enters the maze.
Dumbledore watches him go.
Harry looks back towards the entrance and sees Moody pointing surreptitiously to the left.
He stares uncertainly down the narrow, misty path.
Suddenly, the hedges close together behind him, blocking the way out.
Harry swallows hard and follows the direction Moody has indicated.
Each long path looks exactly the same.
The thick, hewn hedges rise feet on either side.
Above his head, he can only see a narrow strip of sky.
The intricate maze extends far around him stretching away into distance of mist covered valley.
Harry moves slowly and cautiously between the hedges.
He turns and looks behind him fearfully.
Cedric has come in through another entrance.
As confused as Harry, he runs along the narrow paths between the neatly clipped hedges.
He stops uncertain of which way to go.
He chooses a path.
As he moves forward, it crashes closed in front of him.
The hedges on either side grow together hemming him in.
He forces his way through the dense branches as they close in around him, lashing him across the face.
Meanwhile, Viktor plods along in his steady boots, carrying his wand.
Harry spins around as he hears a sound behind him.
Viktor's eyes are glazed over.
Fleur runs frantically between the hedges.
She reaches a dead end and panicking, runs back the way she came.
Her face clammy with fear, she stares uncertainly down the misty pathway.
Hearing something behind her, she turns.
Harry hears her scream.
Viktor leans over Fleur.
She lies on the ground, staring slightly.
He looks up.
His eyes are cloudy.
Sinuous roots creep towards Fleur from under the hedge.
Harry runs in the direction of the scream.
He peers through the swirling mist and spots Viktor.
Harry draws back into the hedge as Viktor shines the lighted end of his wand straight into Harry's face.
As Viktor eyes are clouded over and he fails to see Harry, he passes by.
Harry searches for Fleur.
As he reaches her, she vanishes from sight, drawn under the hedge by a tangle of sinuous roots.
Harry points his wand upwards.
High above, red sparks explode in the evening sky.
A howling wind lashes the branches sending dust and leaves into the air.
Harry starts to run as the hedges starts to close together behind him.
He dives head first through a closing gap and lands on the ground.
Harry sees a bright object in a distance.
Heading towards it, he emerges onto a path between Cedric and Viktor.
Harry drops.
Cedric aims his wand at Viktor and knocks him unconscious.
He kicks Viktor's wand from his hand and raises his own wand.
Harry stops him.
Cedric pushes him off and starts to run.
Harry follows.
They jostle for position, grabbing each other by the shirt, pulling each other's back, fighting each other off.
They see the trophy.
They sprint forward, Cedric slightly ahead.
The Triwizard Trophy gleams through the mist.
The roots reach out and trips Cedric.
Harry surges past, then stops, and looks back.
Cedric is dragged backwards, tangled in the roots and branches of the hedge.
He struggles in vain to escape.
The sinuous roots have twined around his neck, strangling him.
Harry looks at the gleaming trophy and back at Cedric.
Harry points his wand.
The roots and branches loosen their hold.
Harry runs to Cedric and helps him to free himself.
Exhausted and trembling, he scrambles to his feet.
A strong wind flings leaves high into the air and the hedges advance.
As the hedges close in behind them, they both sprint towards the shining trophy.
Reaching it, they pause in front of it.
They grab, one hand each.
It spins like a Catherine wheel.
They land beside a statue in the cemetery.
They scramble to their feet.
Cedric looks around the moonlit graveyard.
The trophy is lying on the ground.
Harry clutches his forehead in agony.
Wormtail appears, clutching a small, wizened creature in a blanket.
Cedric draws his wand.
Cedric falls, dead.
Aiming his wand, Wormtail forces Harry up into the arms of the statue.
It traps him fast behind the handle of the scythe.
A cauldron stands in front of Harry.
Wormtail drops the pale, deformed creature into it.
Wormtail opens the Riddle family grave.
He drops a bone into the cauldron.
He draws a knife.
He slices off his right hand into the cauldron.
He slashes open Harry's sleeve.
He cuts Harry's arm.
Harry's blood is added to the cauldron.
The contents of the cauldron sieve and bubble.
Wormtail runs into the shadows as flames leap high into the night sky.
The cauldron disappears.
A ghastly, shapeless figure appears in front of Harry, riving and twisting as it slowly takes human form.
A veil of black smoke descends and unfolds the creature.
Voldemort slowly turns his head.
His gleaming, gray skin is stretched tight over his bony features.
He has sunken eyes.
In place of a nose, his nostrils are two narrow slits.
He runs his fingers over his hairless skull.
Wormtail emerges from the shadows.
Now, draped in a black robe, Voldemort opens his arms triumphantly.
The dark lord admires his restored human form, a smile on his thin lips.
Bowing low, Wormtail holds it out.
Voldemort takes it in his long, bony fingers.
Voldemort presses his wand into the dark mark tattooed on Wormtail's arm.
He looks up in to the glowering sky.
From the darkening clouds, arriving snaking ribbon of black smoke emerges.
It twists and turns downwards, dividing in to separate plumes, each revealing a black-robed death eater, wearing a tall pointed hood, and a skeleton mask.
As the smoke clears, Voldemort faces them.
He unmasks them.
They fall to their knees.
Snatching another mask.
Lucius rips off his hood.
He restores his hand in silver.
Looking down at Cedric.
He presses one finger in to Harry's scared forehead.
Harry falls to the ground.
He forces Harry to bow.
Harry writhes in agony.
He sends Harry spinning.
Harry dives for cover.
Summoning up every ounce of courage, Harry faces Voldemort.
Red light streams from Harry's wand, green light from Voldemort's.
The power from their wands collides and meets like molten lava in a burst of bright flame.
Sparks fly as they struggle desperately to overcome each other.
Harry controls his quivering wand with both hands.
Voldemort's face is twisted with hatred.
Streaks of light burst all around, illuminating the dark sky.
The ghostly images of Voldemort's victims appear.
First Cedric, then Bryce, the old caretaker, killed in the mansion.
Harry's father and mother appear at his side.
His father speaks.
Breaking the connection, Harry grabs Cedric.
The cup flies into his hand.
Voldemort howls with frustration.
Harry lands with Cedric in the arena.
The spectators go wild.
Fleur senses that something is wrong.
Dumbledore gets up.
He tries to pull Harry away.
Harry clings to Cedric's body.
Mr. Diggory bursts through the spectators.
He weeps over Cedric's body.
Moody pulls Harry up.
Moody helps Harry away.
The students stand, stunned into silence.
Still in a state of shock, Harry walks into Professor Moody's room.
Moody slides shut the iron lock on the heavy wooden door.
Harry stands in a trance, pale and shaking, clutching his arm.
His clothes are torn.
His face is bloody.
Moody pulls up a stool and sits him down in front of the fire.
Harry's deep gash is revealed.
He grips Harry's arm.
Moody's face twists with agony.
Moody opens his hip flask but finds it empty.
He runs into the next room and searches feverishly among bottles in a wooden box.
They are all empty.
Moody stands in the doorway behind him.
He searches the shelves.
He glares at Harry with his mad eye.
Grabbing Harry's arm, he sucks Harry's blood from his fingers.
The door bursts open, and Moody is flung hard against the stone wall.
Dumbledore grabs him.
Snape pours truth serum into Moody's mouth.
Moody looks towards the locked trunk.
Snape points his wand.
The lid flies open.
Then six more trunks open, one inside the other.
Dumbledore, Snape, and McGonagall peer into the trunk, down a deep shaft.
A figure with one leg and one eye lies far below.
Snape sniffs the flask.
They turn and watch his face and body start to twist with the violent convulsions.
He wrenches off the leather patch with the mad, rolling eye, and flings it down.
He transforms into a younger man, who lashes out angrily.
It's Mr. Crouch's son.
He lunges at Harry.
Barty reveals the dark mark.
Dumbledore uncovers Harry's wound.
Snape presses his wand hard against Barty's cheek.
Barty narrows his eyes and flickers out his tongue.
The entire school is assembled in the great hall.
Dumbledore finds Harry packing his case in the boys' bedroom.
The professor touches the velvet drapes on the four-poster bed.
Harry nods.
He looks at Harry reassuringly and leaves.
In the courtyard, students say goodbye at the end of term.
Victor finds Hermione in the crowd and gives her a note.
Fleur and her sister kiss Ron goodbye.
Ron is flustered and blushes with embarrassment.
Harry walks along the cloisters as the Hogwarts' students say goodbye to the Durmstrang and Beauxbatons visitors.
He smiles to himself.
The galleon on the lake fires a last salute.
Cheered by the Hogwarts students, the elegant Beauxbatons girls march away along the cloisters.
The Durmstrang students follow, shaking hands as they go.
Ron and Hermione join Harry.
The boys turn to go, but Hermione hangs back.
Harry puts his hand on her shoulder.
Hermione gives a deep sigh.
The three friends walk out through an archway together and watch as the Beauxbatons coach flies overhead.
The seven winged horses swoop down past the tall sails of the galleon and away over the lake.
The ship slowly sinks beneath the surface of the shimmering water.
The sun breaks through the threatening storm clouds illuminating words in spiky metal letters.
The sun blazes down.
A heat haze hangs over suburban London.
Cars speed along a duel carriageway beside a field, where the grass is scorched and dry.
In a corner of the field is a neglected playground.
A teenage boy, Harry Potter, walks across the field.
In the playground.
A boy gets off the roundabout.
Everyone leaves.
Harry sits on a swing lost in thought.
He sees his cousin Dudley with his gang.
Harry pulls out his wand.
He holds it to Dudley's throat.
The sky grows dark.
Heavy storm clouds roll overhead blocking out the sun.
A strong wind rises.
The gang runs off.
Dudley and Harry look up as the sky grows even darker.
The powerful wind blows flurries of waste paper across the playground.
They run for shelter.
As the storm breaks and heavy rain begins to fall.
Harry leads the way along a rutted cart track.
Dudley is overweight and finds it hard to keep up.
Soaked to the skin, they find shelter in a long tunnel under the road.
They stop to catch their breath.
Ahead of them, the grimy underpass is dimly lit by yellow lamps reflected in the puddles of water underfoot.
The faulty lamps flicker and fizz throwing an eerie yellow light along the tunnel.
The dingy concrete walls are covered with graffiti.
They look around nervously, their breath visible in the icy air.
A cloaked figure swoops in and grabs Harry.
As Dudley flees, his legs are knocked from under him.
An unseen force drags him along the ground.
A second skeletal figure floats closer above his face.
A Dementor hovers in front of Harry, forcing him against the wall with his bony fingers around his throat, attempting to suck out his life.
Harry struggles desperately as a faint vapor is drawn from his face.
The second Dementor floats above Dudley, sucking vapor from him.
Harry pulls out his wand and strikes his attacker.
The Dementor releases him.
Harry falls heavily, dropping his wand.
He grabs it as the cloaked figure swoops again.
A powerful bright light hurls his attacker away.
Dudley lies helpless beneath the other Dementor.
Harry uses his wand to hurl the dazzling light towards it.
The creator flies from the underpass.
Traffic roars past on the road above.
Harry runs to Dudley who is semi-conscious and gasping for breath.
A elderly woman wearing a plastic mac and rain hat enters the tunnel pulling a shopping trolley.
Harry tries to hide his wand.
The elder woman stops.
They walk home.
Harry half carries the stupefied Dudley to number four Privet Drive.
Aunt Petunia is watching television.
Harry staggers in with Dudley.
About to be sick, Dudley points weakly at Harry.
An owl hits the ceiling and falls in a flurry of feathers.
The owl flies off.
The envelope speaks.
Uncle Vernon smirks with glee.
Under cover of darkness, the Dursleys smuggle Dudley into the car with a blanket over his head.
Mrs. Figg watches from her window opposite.
Mrs. Figg waves.
In his bedroom, Harry thumps the wardrobe in anger and frustration.
A photograph standing beside his owl's cage falls onto the carpet.
Harry picks it up.
He sits on his bed and looks at his parents dancing together in the moving photograph.
Harry places it carefully on his bedside table beside a half -eaten plate of food.
Cedric's face looms out of the darkness sweating with fear.
Harry relives his terror as a flash of green light engulfs Cedric, who falls lifeless.
Voldemort blank eyes stare out from his bony snake-like skull.
Harry jerks awake.
A streak of moonlight across his pillow.
He lies as if in a trance.
His lips moving.
He turns his head as he hears a scraping sound.
Still fully dressed, Harry reaches for his glasses and puts them on.
He looks towards the door.
The key is slowly turning in the lock.
Harry grabs his wand and sits up.
The key continues to turn.
The key falls to the floor.
With a dazzling flash, the door flies open.
Lit by a wand, five people stand in the doorway.
Harry recognizes one of them.
Moody leads them all outside.
Moody taps his stick.
A broomstick flies into each person's hand.
Mrs. Figg watches as they soar away high above Privet Drive.
The twinkling lights of central London are spread out below.
Kingsley, a wizard in African robes, flies in front.
Following the line of the River Thames as it winds through the city.
They fly low, cloaks flying, like a flight of huge bats skimming the surface of the shimmering water.
They swoop by HMS Belfast and head upriver towards Westminster.
Harry flies close besides Nymphadora Tonks.
The pleasure boat on a nighttime cruise head straight toward them.
Nymphadora steers to the right of it.
Harry to the left.
They pass the flood-lit houses of Parliament, reflected in the water like a huge ocean liner.
A refuse lorry passes a garden in the middle of the London square.
Moody leads them from the garden into the street.
Facing a terrace of Georgian houses, he strikes the pavement.
One of the houses in front of them moves to the left.
Harry's jaw drops.
As an extra house slides into the space.
and balconies slot into position.
Oblivious, the people next door continue watching television.
A dark narrow corridor, dimly lit and festooned with cobwebs.
The patterned tiles underfoot are cracked and dirty.
Harry hesitates.
Moody pushes past impatiently.
The others follow him towards an open door at the end of the gloomy passage.
Nymphadora turns and winks at Harry.
She trips over an umbrella stand.
Through the open door, Harry spots Mr. Weasley, Sirius and Lupin.
She comes out closing the door.
She hugs him warmly.
Looks at him closely.
A house elf emerges onto the landing dragging a wooden box.
It has skinny arms, long pointed nose and ears and wears a ragged vest.
The elf glares spitefully at Harry.
It stands on the box and polishes a picture frame.
Harry opens a door and is nearly knocked off his feet by Hermione.
Ron stands behind her.
Harry looks around the bedroom.
Harry's eyes widen.
The Weasley twins dangle a magic ear over the banisters.
Hermione's cat, Crookshanks, sees the ear.
He grabs at it with his paw.
He runs off with it.
Fred and George run off.
Harry embraces his godfather.
Sirius holds him close.
Harry's photograph is underneath.
Sirius looks directly at Harry.
Sirius winks at Harry.
Ron sleeps peacefully.
Harry's sleep is disturbed by dreams.
A down escalator on the London Underground.
Mr. Weasley stands stiffly holding both hand rails.
Nearing the bottom, he braces himself and steps off unsteadily.
Harry follows him.
At the barrier, Mr. Weasley copies other passengers.
Placing his palm on the automatic ticket reader pad.
The gate remains shut.
Harry puts a ticket in the slot.
Mr. Weasley is leaning back against the gates.
They open.
He slips through backwards looking delighted.
On street level.
A red telephone box.
They step inside.
The inside of the box sinks below the surface of the pavement like a lift.
A replacement interior slides down to fill the empty space.
The box comes to a halt.
Mr. Weasley opens the door.
They step out into a cavernous tiled hall lined on either side with enormous fireplaces.
The telephone box lift disappears above their heads.
People appear from the fireplaces in flashes of green smoke.
Carrying briefcases and bundles of papers, they join the throngs of other witches and wizards hurrying to work through the great underground hall.
Harry follows Mr. Weasley past a fountain with huge golden statues.
He looks up at a gigantic silken banner floating above.
On it is a moving image of the Minister of Magic, Cornelius Fudge.
They crowd into a Victorian lift with metal gates.
Paper airplanes swoop around their heads.
Kingsley pushes into the lift and whispers to Mr. Weasley.
The gates close and the lift moves backwards.
Then, the lift drops downwards.
The two of them step out into a corridor.
The walls and floor are lined with shiny black tiles.
They see Fudge talking to Lucius Malfoy.
Outside the courtroom.
Harry nods nervously.
The jurors exchange glances.
He approaches Fudge.
Dumbledore sighs and addresses the members of the jury.
Some jurors murmur to each other.
Fudge raises his hand.
With a sickly smile, the Undersecretary raises hers.
Others follow suit.
Many more jurors raise their hands.
Mrs. Figg raises hers, then makes to scratch her ear.
Amelia Bones raises her hand.
Harry jumps to his feet.
Dumbledore has gone.
Kings Cross Station.
Moody and Nymphadora Tonks lead Harry and the Weasley family across a footbridge.
A large black dog hesitates beside Harry.
The huge dog trots into a waiting room and turns into a man.
Harry runs in after him.
A group photograph of people.
In the photo, Harry's parents stand beside Sirius.
Harry hands the photograph back to Sirius.
Harry walks along the platform.
Crowded with Hogwarts' students and their families.
He sees the tall, gaunt figure of Voldemort facing him.
The Dark Lord twists and flexes his neck.
On the train, Harry sits in a corner of the carriage.
He shifts uneasily, twisting and flexing his neck.
Hermione sits besides him and glances at Ron.
As evening falls, the Hogwarts Express speeds along the coast, a plume of white smoke streaming from the funnel.
Hogwarts School sits beside a river running down to the sea.
They emerge from the train.
Draco Malfoy struts along the platform.
Ron holds Harry back.
Harry shakes Ron off.
Outside the station, four girls sit in a horseless carriage.
One of them is Cho, a pretty Oriental girl.
She smiles at Harry.
The carriage pulls away.
Harry stares after it.
As they wait for another carriage, Neville joins them, carrying a cactus.
Harry turns and sees a strange creature behind him.
It has a head like a horse.
It stretches its long leathery neck.
Puzzled, Harry inspects the animal more closely.
In the carriage behind it, a girl with long blond hair sits reading a magazine.
She's holding it upside down.
They all climb in.
Hermione shifts uncomfortably.
They all look confused.
In the great hall, Luna and the other students tuck into a luscious assortment of puddings.
Harry has an empty space beside him.
He looks over at Seamus, who pointedly ignores him.
He stops as Professor Umbridge, the former Undersecretary, rises smiling primly.
She's a small woman in a sugar-pink suit with matching accessories.
The twins are not convinced.
She beams at Dumbledore.
Filch applauds enthusiastically.
Harry walks into the Gryffindor common room.
Everyone turns to look at him.
Ron glares around the common room then follows Harry upstairs.
Harry kicks his trunk.
Ron is taken aback.
Ron goes, leaving Harry alone.
Harry sits on his bed staring into space.
He twists and flexes his neck.
A blue door at the end of a black tiled corridor.
Harry tosses and turns in his sleep.
The black corridor.
Veins twist under Harry's skin.
The black corridor.
The blue door.
A glass sphere.
A bony hand.
Harry wakes drenched with sweat to see Ron watching him with concern.
A classroom.
A girl launches a white paper airplane.
It becomes an intricate paper bird and flutters its wings.
Seamus takes a swipe at it.
The bird flies out of reach and soars around the classroom.
Crabbe aims his catapult.
The bird hovers.
It burst into flames.
Professor Umbridge lowers her wand.
She points her wand.
Books distribute themselves on the student's desks.
She gives a sickly smile.
Students lower their eyes nervously.
Searching for words, Umbridge glances around the classroom.
She walks slowly towards Harry.
Sitting in her pink office, Umbridge puts three spoonfuls of pale pink sugar into a china cup decorated with pink roses.
Cats move around on the china plates on the wall.
She stirs her tea.
Umbridge puts down the cup and touches a pen lying on her desk.
Harry opens the door and looks at the plates on the wall.
A white cat stares at him from one of the plates.
She places a curled brown quill in front of him.
Umbridge looks out of the window and smiles with secret anticipation.
Harry starts to write with the quill in his right hand.
To his surprise, the words appear on the paper written in red.
Umbridge smiles again as Harry winces with pain.
An angry red arc appears on the back of his left hand and then another.
He sees words.
As Harry writes on the paper, the words appear cut into the skin on the back of his hand.
Harry looks at the quill in disbelief.
Umbridge stands in front of Harry and smiles sweetly down at him, her eyebrows raised.
Harry boldly meets her gaze then blinks.
She leans over him, smiling with satisfaction.
Fred and George try out their inventions.
Ron and Hermione sit beside Harry.
He turns a page of his book.
He shows his right.
She looks at the scars.
Harry walks off, leaving Hermione and Ron looking bewildered.
Harry's owl, Hedwig, flies away from Hogwarts.
Standing outside Hagrid's deserted cottage.
Harry sees a large winged creature swoop down into the Forbidden Forest.
Harry wanders alone through the Forbidden Forest.
He spots a group of the horse-like creatures he saw pulling the carriage.
They have huge bat-like wings.
A girl is stroking the nose of one of them.
She's barefoot.
Harry looks up at the reptilian creature.
They see a baby Thestral.
She takes an apple from her bag.
The baby Thestral squawks.
She rolls the apple to the baby.
Luna throws down a piece of raw meat.
Ignoring the apple, the baby Thestral flaps its wings and gobbles up the meat.
Ron gobbles a sausage at breakfast.
Harry approaches the table.
On the stairs, McGonagall is affronted.
Filch hammers in a nail and hangs a decree.
Umbridge has been appointed Hogwarts' high inquisitor.
Pink suede shoes stalk the corridor.
Umbridge interrogates Professor Trelawney.
Snape swipes Ron.
The twins play tricks with a firework.
Umbridge destroys it.
Filch climbs a ladder.
More decrees.
Umbridge smiles smugly to herself.
Filch swings his ladder.
Students duck.
He swings it back.
They duck again.
Trelawney gapes.
Umbridge measures the height of tiny Professor Flitwick as he conducts the choir.
Trelawney's eyes look round desperately behind her huge glasses.
Umbridge ticks a box and leaves the classroom.
Students crowd into the cloisters.
Professor Trelawney stands in the courtyard, looking devastated.
She sits on a trunk.
Filch brings out more of her luggage.
Umbridge comes out of the main door and approaches purposefully.
Professor Trelawney gets up and bumps into a suitcase.
She starts to weep.
Umbridge is unmoved.
Umbridge holds up a decree.
McGonagall comforts Trelawney.
The great main doors swing open.
Dumbledore appears.
The students watch with baited breath.
Umbridge smiles a knowing smile.
Harry pushes his way through the crowd of students, but Dumbledore has gone.
In the common room.
Harry turns up the radio.
In the fire, his image fades away into the embers.
A flash of lightning.
Lightning illuminates the room.
Hermione looks directly at Harry.
Rain streams down the diamond-shaped window panes.
The rain turns to swirling snow, briefly forming the face of Voldemort.
The sun rises over the snow-covered village of Hogsmeade.
The three friends trudge towards the decrepit Hogshead Inn.
They peer inside.
A goat walks through the bar.
Hermione addresses around students.
He glances at Cho.
Students shift uncomfortably.
He sits down.
She takes a deep breath.
Harry nods.
Hermione, Harry and Ron sit at a table.
Walking back to Hogwarts, Harry consults his friends.
Harry grins.
Umbridge watches from a high tower as they return to school.
Filch leans close as she gives him instructions.
Neville hurries away from the bullying Crabbe and Goyle.
Walking along the corridor, an odd sound causes him to stop.
He turns back, bewildered.
An intricate carving appears in the stone wall in front of him, and then a large archway.
As Neville watches, the carved stone becomes a pair of huge, wooden double doors.
The doors swing open, revealing a long room lined with shadowy mirrors.
The student army face a metal figure dressed as a cloaked Dementor holding a wand.
A target is painted on its chest.
Harry nods to Neville.
Neville's wand is hurled across the room.
The Dementor's wand falls.
Filch lurks behind a pillar, spotting students approaching the room.
He reaches the door as it dissolves back into the stone wall.
Nigel is a plucky small boy.
He faces Harry and prepares himself.
Harry is thrown backwards.
Eating a huge sandwich, Filch guards the blank wall.
Ron faces Hermione.
Neville encourages Ron.
Ron flies backwards.
Fred collects his winnings.
Outside, Filch wakes from a doze.
Nigel keeps watch as everyone leaves the room through another door.
A student is ushered into Umbridge's room.
Nigel floats in mid-air.
Harry guides Cho's wand.
She turns to look at him.
Nigel plummets to the ground.
He tucks in.
The twins hide nearby.
Red pustules break out all over Filch's face.
Umbridge snaps her pencil.
Umbridge's squad includes Draco Malfoy, Crabbe, Goyle and Filch.
Luna skips along the corridor.
The inquisitorial squad watch her go through the large wooden doors.
The squad run.
The door shrinks.
They fall into a broom cupboard.
Ginny Weasley's spell destroys the metal Dementor.
It disintegrates into a pile of dust.
She is amazed at her own skill.
Her three brothers look rather put out.
Harry beams.
He watches Cho.
She gives him a shy smile.
Neville is determined to succeed.
The wand spins out of a girl's hand.
Harry congratulates him.
Harry smiles proudly as his pupils applaud.
The students start to leave.
Ron and Hermione exchange a smile when they notice that Harry is watching Cho.
She is lingering beside a mirror covered with photographs.
Harry can't take his eyes off her.
Ron and Hermione leave.
Fred and George leave the Room of Requirement.
Harry joins Cho in front of the mirror.
They both look at a moving photograph of a smiling Cedric.
She smiles at him.
Cho looks up as something green and white appears above their heads.
Harry gazes into her dark eyes.
Their lips meet in a gentle kiss.
They're standing close together, but only their lips touch.
Above their heads, the bunch of mistletoe continues to grow.
Ron looks blank.
Harry catches Ron's eye.
The three friends smile warmly.
The black corridor.
Harry writhes in his sleep.
A snake reflected in the shining black.
The blue door.
The glass sphere.
The light of a wand.
A figure in a room full of shelves.
It's Mr. Weasley, his eyes wide with alarm.
Harry's neck flexes.
Mr. Weasley falls.
Mr. Weasley struggles.
Harry's neck flexes again and again.
Mr. Weasley lies still, covered in blood.
Harry wakes.
Professor McGonagall and Ron help Harry to Dumbledore's study.
Ginny is there with the twins.
Dumbledore turns from the moving portraits to face Harry.
Professor Snape approaches behind Harry.
Snape takes Harry down to his storeroom.
Snape raises his wand.
Harry's body goes rigid.
He gasps in agony.
His mind fills with terrifying memories.
The wind sends a flurry of snowflakes in all directions.
The snow begins to settle on the towers and turrets of Hogwarts School.
The screen turns white.
Children throw snowballs outside the London house.
The kitchen is decorated for Christmas.
Mr. Weasley is brought in, looking battered and bruised.
He is in a wheelchair.
He's wearing a paper hat.
Standing in the doorway, Sirius raises his glass and winks.
A knitted jerkin.
Harry finds a room where the walls are covered with a tapestry, sewn with names and faces.
The house elf startles him.
He skulks off.
Sirius's image has been burnt away.
Sirius embraces Harry, and hugs him affectionately.
Harry joins Hermione.
Sirius looks back at the family tree and his own obliterated face.
He closes the door.
A gray sky is reflected in the river.
Hogwarts School stands high on the cliffs above.
Harry chats with Cho as they walk through the courtyard.
Hermione finds them.
Harry turns to Cho.
He hurries off with Hermione.
Harry, Ron and Hermione run down the hill towards Hagrid's cottage.
A faint plume of smoke rises from the chimney.
They hide as Umbridge comes out, wearing a fluffy purple coat over her pink dress.
She sniffs and wrinkles her nose.
She sprays herself with perfume, then sprays a cross on the cottage door.
Hagrid's face is red and bruised.
He holds a raw steak to his eye.
The huge dog gobbles it eagerly.
The wind blows wisps of straw across the room.
Hagrid looks out of the window.
A flash of lightning.
A snake tattooed on a man's arm twists and writhes.
A woman with wild hair runs her tongue over the snake tattooed on her arm.
She hears an explosion.
The woman, wearing striped prison clothes, escapes through a gaping hole.
Dementors circle high above the prison, a colossal triangular tower, surrounded by an angry sea.
Neville slowly closes the newspaper.
At breakfast.
A cozy fire burns in the Room of Requirement.
Harry joins Neville.
He is looking at a photograph stuck up on the mirror.
The photograph that Sirius gave Harry at the station.
Neville's parents are part of the group.
Harry nods reassuringly.
He looks at his own parents.
A horse.
Hermione's is an otter.
Ron's is a dog.
Luna produces a hare, which leaps joyfully over their heads.
Harry grins proudly.
The chandelier begins to shake.
Luna's silvery Patronus disappears.
The room grows dark.
The students look around, nervously.
A huge mirror cracks and shatters.
Nigel peers through a hole in the stone wall behind it, and sees Umbridge and her squad.
She aims her wand.
Harry pulls Nigel away.
The wall implodes.
Chunks of stones fly into the room in a cloud of dust.
Umbridge beams with satisfaction.
Harry sees that Draco is holding Cho.
She looks tearful and distressed.
Dumbledore winks at Harry.
Fawkes the phoenix swoops down.
Man and bird disappears in a burst of flame.
Filch climbs a high, tottering ladder.
They read the latest decree.
To make more space on the wall, Filch removes a painting of six men in Elizabethan dress inspecting a skeleton.
They look up in alarm.
Filch tips the painting to one side.
They all slide out of sight.
The intricate locking mechanism on the school's main doors slides into place.
The great hall.
The members of Dumbledore's army take their punishment.
They write without ink using Umbridge's curled brown quills.
She sits on the stage facing them.
Perched on Dumbledore's chair.
Dressed in a long pink robe.
Drinking a cup of tea.
As the students wince with pain, she smiles to herself with obvious pleasure.
Gritting their teeth, Fred and George glare at her.
Cho is standing outside the hall as the students come out.
They clutch their sore and painful hands.
Hesitantly, Cho approaches the last person to leave.
He cuts her dead and walks past.
Tearful and forlorn, she gazes after him.
Hagrid peers through an archway.
The Forbidden Forest.
A herd of creatures, half-man, half-horse, gallops past.
A young giant looms out of the shadows.
He is times bigger than Hagrid.
The giant flattens a bird between his huge hands.
Gwarp lumbers towards them, knocking Hagrid aside.
They back away, but he is restrained by a rope tethered to a tree.
He towers over them.
Gwarp grabs Hermione.
Ron thwacks Gwarp and is knocked over.
Hermione looks like a tiny doll in the giant's fist.
She wags her finger sternly in his face.
Gwarp places her gently on the ground.
Ron looks at her anxiously.
Gwarp searches through a pile of scrap metal.
He chooses a gift for Hermione.
Picking up a pair of bicycle handlebars in his colossal fist.
He offers them to her.
Hermione takes the handlebars from him.
Gwarp looks at her expectantly.
Hagrid nods encouragement.
Hermione rings the rusty bell.
Gwarp sits playing with the bell and smiling innocently.
Harry sees his parents in a mirror and a reflection of his younger self between them.
Snape points his wand.
A confusion of happy and terrifying memories flashes through Harry's mind.
Harry invades Snape's memories.
Sees him unhappy.
He sees Snape humiliated by his father.
Back in the storeroom.
His face twisted with anger, Snape grabs Harry viciously and peers into his face.
Harry cowers and runs from Snape's room.
He hears crying in the corridor and finds the twins comforting a small boy.
Umbridge stands watching them.
She goes.
The O.W.L. exams.
The great hall is set out with long rows of desks.
Hermione is busily writing.
Ron sighs and looks worried.
Harry watches Umbridge.
She stands on the stage in front of a huge swinging pendulum.
Her smug smile fades.
Several students turn to look at the door behind them.
Umbridge strides purposefully down the middle of the hall towards the great wooden doors.
Everyone stops writing and turns to look.
Umbridge opens the door.
A fizzing firework hovers in front of her nose and whizzes into the hall, where it explodes in a shower of sparks.
Umbridge looks anxiously around the empty hallway.
Suddenly, Fred and George hurtle over her head on broomsticks.
They zoom backwards and forwards, flinging exam papers and whiz bangs into the air.
The multicolored fireworks spiral down and explode, scattering the papers in all directions.
Goyle gets a firework in his face.
Crabbe, a whiz bang up his backside.
Another attacks Draco.
Filch rushes in.
One of the twins gives a signal.
His brother flings a large firework into the air.
With a flash, the head of a flaming, fiery dragon appears and heads for Umbridge.
It's mouth full of white hot teeth.
She races for the door.
The dragon bursts out after her and explodes destroying the hundreds of decrees that Filch has nailed to the wall.
The frames come clattering down in a shower of glass, paper, and splintered wood.
Fred and George fly from the building and swoop out over the battlements on their broomsticks, flinging fireworks as they go.
Delighted students rush out into the courtyard, applauding the magnificent display.
Professor Flitwick is among them looking rather confused.
A huge fiery letter W appears in the sky.
Ron smiles with pride.
Professor Flitwick punches the air, then looks around self- consciously.
Harry's face grows pale.
He collapses in slow motion.
Hermione sees him fall.
Harry is overwhelmed by an image of Sirius being tortured by Voldemort.
Sirius gasps.
His face contorts with pain.
Harry sees the number The glass sphere.
The black corridor.
The blue door.
Hermione kneels beside him anxiously.
Hermione looks at Ron.
They enter Umbridge's study.
The white cat leaves his China plate through a cat flap.
Harry throws flue powder into the fire.
Draco drags in Neville.
Umbridge leans over Harry.
Harry looks at Ron and Hermione.
He turns to go.
Snape turns back and raises his eyebrows.
With determination, Umbridge raises her wand.
The Forbidden Forest.
Harry catches up with Hermione.
The frayed end of Gwarp's rope lies on the ground.
Umbridge is dirty and disheveled.
Shadowy creatures appear amongst the trees.
Umbridge steps back nervously.
She wags a finger.
They have bows and arrows.
She deflects an arrow.
She points her wand.
The centaur falls.
A strangling rope around its throat.
It writhes and thrashes.
Hermione tries to release it.
Umbridge is lifted into the air by Gwarp.
The centaurs charge firing arrows.
Pierced by arrows, Gwarp drops Umbridge.
The centaurs grab her.
She is carried off.
They run back through the forest towards Hogwarts.
Neville, Luna, Ginny and Ron run to meet them.
Harry faces his friends.
Harry, Hermione, Neville, Luna, Ginny and Ron soar above the pine forest.
They eat sit astride the leathery back of a thestral.
Harry holds on tightly and looks around at his companions.
Flying close behind, Luna gives him a happy smile.
The thestrals fly on through the stormy night buffeted by strong winds.
At last, the familiar lights of Canary Wharf and the winding River Thames appear below them.
They run through the deserted Ministry of Magic.
Ahead of them is the long corridor lined with shiny black tiles.
Harry moves forward cautiously.
The others follow him along the black corridor towards the blue door at the far end.
Inside is a shadowy storeroom full of high, wooden shelves.
They hold up their lighted wands.
Standing on the numbered shelves are thousands of cloudy glass spheres.
The door behind them slides away.
The rows of glass spheres fill the shelves, which stand close together and extend upwards high above their heads.
By the light of his wand, Harry searches the long, dark passages between the shelves.
He stops and shines his wand down onto the empty floor.
He turns to his friends.
Neville is reading a label on a shelf beneath one of the spheres.
As Harry walks towards it, the sphere stars to glow, illuminating the swirling mist inside it.
Harry reaches out and lifts it down.
Harry steps in front of his friends.
They move closer together.
A masked Death Eater is approaching slowly along the passage.
Lucius Malfoy unmasks.
Harry holds Neville back.
Dark figures approach down the passageways.
The masked figures draw closer.
The friends run for it.
Lucius appears in front of them.
They turn back.
Luna is knocked down.
She raises her wand.
Her attacker vanishes.
Neville stuns a Death Eater.
Luna pulls him away.
More Death Eaters appear.
They block the passages.
Pursued, Hermione flicks her wand.
Glass spheres smash down onto their pursuers.
The friends find each other.
Death Eaters advance.
Ginny points her wand.
Their attackers vanish.
The passages are deserted.
Several glass spheres drop from the highest shelves and shatter.
The friends look up in alarm.
Luna stands mesmerized by the falling spheres.
Neville grabs her arm.
As they run, more spheres plummet from the shelves.
They head for the door at the end of a long narrow passage.
The wooden shelves collapse behind them, sending a cascade of glass spheres crashing down.
Crunching broken glass under foot, they reach the door.
It opens and they run straight through.
And fall into empty space.
They land face down beside a large rocky mound.
Harry is still clucking the glowing sphere.
A stone archway filled with misty vapor stands on the mound.
They raise their wands for protection as a group of black- cloaked figures swoops down.
The Death Eaters swirl around them trailing plumes of dense black smoke.
Harry lies huddled on the rocky mound clutching the prophecy sphere.
He gets cautiously to his feet.
Ahead of him, a scowling Death Eater is restraining Luna, his wand at her throat.
Harry looks around for the others.
Each of his friends is held prisoner by a grim-faced Death Eater.
Ron struggles.
Hermione's captor tightens his hold.
Lucius approaches Harry.
Lucius holds out his hand.
Harry looks around at his friends, helpless in the grip of the Death Eaters.
He looks back at Lucius' outstretched hand.
Bellatrix is holding Neville by the hair.
With an evil smile, she presses her wand to his throat.
Harry places the glowing prophecy into Lucius' hand.
The glass sphere grows dark.
Lucius holds it up in triumph.
A flash of bright light.
Lucius turns in surprise.
Sirius punches Lucius, who drops the sphere.
Lucius lunges for it.
It shatters.
The Death Eaters release their captives.
Bellatrix disappears.
Flashes of light bring reinforcements, amongst them Nymphadora Tonks.
Another flash brings Kingsley to join them.
Then Lupin.
A Death Eater advances.
Sirius fends him off and pulls Harry to safety.
Nymphadora helps Luna and Hermione.
Lucius draws a wand from his stick and aims it at Harry.
A Death Eater joins Lucius.
Shoulder-to-shoulder, Sirius and Harry fight Lucius and the Death Eater in front of the stone archway.
Death Eaters swoop above their heads, trailing black smoke.
One heads for Moody.
He taps his stick and the Death Eater is hurled away backwards.
Sirius congratulates Harry and disarms Lucius.
He sends him hurling backwards.
Bellatrix attacks.
Sirius staggers.
He gives Harry a faint smile, then is drawn away through the stone archway and gradually disappears.
Absorbed into the swirling, misty vapor beyond.
Sirius is gone.
Distraught, Harry tries to follow.
Lupin grabs him tightly and holds him back.
Struggling to free himself, Harry's grief turns to rage when he sees Bellatrix Lestrange's evil smile.
She slips away quickly around a dark corner.
Harry breaks free from Lupin and races after her.
He catches up with her as she runs through the great hall of the Ministry of Magic.
The spell stops her and she falls.
Bellatrix cowers on the ground.
Harry stands over her aiming his wand.
His neck twists and flexes.
He hesitates.
Harry grips his wand.
Voldemort appears.
Harry turns.
Voldemort knocks Harry's wand from his hand.
A flash of green smoke.
Dumbledore appears out of a fireplace.
Dumbledore pushes Harry aside.
Bellatrix disappears in a flash of green smoke.
Voldemort flicks his wand.
Dumbledore retaliates.
Red light streams from Dumbledore's wand.
Green light from Voldemort's.
The two powerful forces meet like molten lava in a burst of flashing sparks and flame.
Harry cowers.
Voldemort breaths out a gigantic serpent, weaved in red hot flames.
Bearing its fangs, the serpent twists and flexes its fiery body.
The serpent heads for Harry.
Dumbledore holds it back.
Hovered against the wall, Harry shields his face from the heat.
Dumbledore draws a great wave of water from the pools surrounding the fountain and submerges Voldemort.
The water forms a huge rolling ball with Voldemort trapped inside.
He bursts out.
Dumbledore launches a blast of powerful energy.
Voldemort staggers and then returns it.
Dumbledore is hurled backwards.
Windows shatter.
The banner with the picture of Fudge is torn to shreds by flying shards of glass.
Voldemort's face twists into a snarl.
He sends the jagged pieces of broken glass hurling towards Harry and Dumbledore, who produces a force field to protect them.
The pieces of glass are deflected and reduced to a fine sand.
Voldemort's grin of triumph fades.
Dumbledore faces him, standing in front of Harry to protect him.
Voldemort suddenly disappears in whirlwind of sand, which ruffles Dumbledore's white beard.
A shiver runs through the sand on the floor at their feet.
It heads towards Harry.
Harry's body stiffens and convulses.
He falls to the ground.
His eyes are dark-rimmed, red and staring.
He glares at Dumbledore and speaks.
Harry writhes in agony.
Painful images fill his mind.
His mother.
Cedric lying dead.
Sirius fading away from him.
Dumbledore kneels besides Harry.
Harry sees himself as Voldemort.
Dumbledore leans over him anxiously.
Harry lies still.
Hermione, Ron and the others come into the wrecked hall of the Ministry of Magic and stop in alarm when they see Dumbledore kneeling beside Harry.
Seeing his friends, Harry recalls happy memories.
His parents.
Good times at Hogwarts with Hermione and Ron.
Voldemort sneers.
Harry makes a last desperate effort.
Voldemort's image hulls with fury and rears away.
Harry is thrown onto his back.
A faint black vapor leaves his body.
He looks up and see Voldemort hovering above him.
Appearing from fireplaces, Fudge and his minions see Voldemort.
He disappears in a spiral of black smoke.
Dumbledore still kneels beside Harry, who is lying unconscious.
In his bedroom at Hogwarts, Harry is packing his trunk.
Lost in his own thoughts, he picks grains of sand out of a sweatshirt.
Harry folds the sweatshirt, puts it into the trunk and closes the lid.
Dumbledore's study.
The moving pictures have all been placed back on the walls.
The occupants are settling themselves as Harry walks down the stairs.
Filch stands at the bottom.
He turns to Harry and sneers.
Harry finds Luna pinning up notices.
She shakes her head.
Luna squeezes his hand.
They look up.
A pair of sneakers hangs from an archway.
Luna skips away along the corridor.
Students walk along the path towards the station.
Trunks and suitcases are wheeled along the platform.
Owls in cages loaded onto the Hogwarts Express.
Nigel collects a cage from one of the horseless carriages outside.
Harry joins Hermione and Ron as they make their way to the station.
Ron and Hermione exchange a smile.
Harry walks into the station followed by his friends.
The under-station.
The pine forest stretches away into the distance.
High on the cliff, the towers and turrets of Hogwarts School are silhouetted against a cloudy, gray sky.
The owl takes wing, and swoops low along the misty road.
As it glides silently away through the trees, an upright elderly gentleman appears out of the shadows.
He has a flowing white beard and long, silky white hair, and wears a pointed black hat.
A plump tabby cat sitting on a wall turns its head curiously.
The old gentleman walks along the pavement and stops beneath a street light.
In his hand, he holds a small metal object which he flicks open.
He raises the metal object and points it at a street lamp.
The light from the lamp flies towards his hand and the lamp goes out.
The light from the second street lamp disappears, and then a third.
When all the lights in the road have been extinguished, the old gentleman lowers the metal object and flicks it shut.
He looks over the top of his half-moon glasses at the plump tabby cat.
The cat gives a hiccup and its shadow looms large against the wall.
It turns into a stern-looking woman wearing a cloak and a tall pointed black hat with a large brim.
A bright light appears in the sky above the treetops, the lights of a motorcycle.
Coattails flying, Hagrid, a huge giant, zooms down and screeches to a halt.
Twinkling eyes peer out below dark bushy eyebrows.
He has a huge black beard.
He hands over a small bundle wrapped in a warm blanket.
As Professor Dumbledore gently places the bundle on a doorstep, a tear runs down Hagrid's cheek.
The tiny baby has a jacket scar in his forehead.
A boy with a jacket scar in his forehead lies fast to sleep.
In the cupboard under the stairs, Harry Potter wakes and puts on a pad of large round spectacles mended with sticky tape.
A pudgy boy crushes down the stairs.
A shadow of dust falls on Harry.
The pudgy boy rushes into the kitchen.
Harry comes in.
Dudley stairs at the huge pile of birthday presents.
Dudley and his mother get into the car with a big bag of sweets.
Uncle Vernon wags his car key in Harry's face.
In the Reptile House at the zoo, Dudley stares at the sleeping python.
Vernon bangs on the glass.
Harry looks at the snake sympathetically.
The python lifts its head and winks.
It flicks its tongue and nods.
It shakes its head.
Dudley knocks Harry aside.
Suddenly, the glass partition disappears.
Dudley tumbles over the rail.
He falls head first into the pond inside the snake's enclosure.
Dudley sits spluttering in the pond, as the snake slithers over the wooden rail and down onto the floor beside Harry.
The python raises its head and stares straight at him.
Visitors scatter in all directions.
The huge snake slithers along the floor and escapes to freedom out of the door of the Reptile House.
Dripping wet, Dudley scrambles to his feet.
But the glass window has reappeared.
He is trapped in the snake house.
He bangs desperately on the glass.
His mother screams with horror.
Uncle Vernon spots Harry laughing and glares at him suspiciously.
Back at 4 Privet Drive.
Vernon grabs Harry by the hair.
Vernon locks him into the cupboard under the stairs.
A tawny owl flies low over Privet Drive and drops a letter.
Inside Number 4, Harry picks up the post from the doormat.
Two letters and a postcard.
One of the letters is sealed with wax.
Harry's eyes widen with surprise as he reads the address written in emerald green ink.
As he walks slowly into the kitchen, still staring at the envelope, Dudley snatches the letter out of his hand.
Uncle Vernon turns the letter over and looks at the coat of arms on the back.
He stares at his wife with horror.
Harry looks confused.
An owl drops another letter, which flies into the letter box at Number The big bird joins two more perched on the TV aerial.
Uncle Vernon tears up three identical letters addressed to Harry.
Harry peeps out of his cupboard and sees his uncle blocking up the letter box.
Aunt Petunia sees Uncle Vernon off to work.
She stares at the owls perched on the car roof rack.
Petunia touches his arm.
Five more letters lie on the path at their feet.
Inside the house, Harry watches helplessly as his uncle burns the envelopes one by one.
Vernon smiles at him sadistically as he pokes the fire and the flames turn the letters to ashes.
Harry hands round a plate of biscuits as Vernon relaxes in his armchair.
Harry peers through the net curtains.
Hundreds of owls are perched on the rooftops and cars in Privet Drive.
A letter shoots down the chimney and flies past his nose.
Vernon blinks with surprise then covers his ears as a rushing wind seems to fill the room.
Suddenly, a flurry of letters cascades down the chimney and out into the sitting room.
Terrified, Dudley jumps onto his mother's lap.
Harry chortles with glee as even more letters hurtle down the chimney.
Like a snowstorm, the envelopes cover the carpet room spread around the room above their heads.
Harry captures a letter and makes a dash for the cupboard under the stairs.
Uncle Vernon grabs him round the waist.
Dudley and his mother escape into the hall.
More letters burst through the letterbox.
Dudley and his mother stare at Vernon in horror.
In the middle of the night, a stormy sea lashes a small rocky island.
Lonely building, a stone hut, Mr. and Mrs. Dursley are fast asleep in a big double bed.
In the room below, Dudley is asleep on a sofa while Harry sprawls on the floor in a sleeping bag.
He adds some candles and glances at the watch on Dudley's wrist.
It's midnight.
He blows the candles.
A flash of lightning.
Dudley wakes with a start.
The heavy wooden door shudders.
Harry hides in a corner.
The Dursleys appear on the stairs.
Vernon waves a shotgun nervously.
The door falls into the room.
A huge figure looms in the doorway.
He steps inside, tucking his pink umbrella into his coat.
He fits the door back into the frame.
Hagrid bends the shotgun barrel.
It fires into the rafters.
Harry steps forward.
He takes a large cake box from his pocket.
Hagrid sits down.
He points his umbrella at the fireplace and lights the fire.
The Dursleys are terrified.
Harry puts down the cake and looks at the giant curiously.
Hagrid smiles knowingly.
He takes out a letter with a wax seal and gives it to Harry.
Harry opens the envelope and reads the green writing.
Spotting Dudley scuffing Harry's cake, he points his umbrella and gives him a curly pig's tail.
The Dursleys shriek with horror.
But Harry laughs with delight.
He throws open the door.
He goes out.
Hesitating for only a moment, Harry follows Hagrid out through the door.
A busy street in London.
Harry reads from a list.
Hagrid takes him into the Leaky Cauldron Public House.
The Smokey Pub is lit with candles.
Harry looks around at the people dressed in old fashioned clothes.
The barman spots them.
Everyone turns and looks.
People shake his hand.
A man in the turban.
Out in the backyard.
He taps his umbrella all around a small metal grill.
To Harry's surprise, the bricks in the wall start to move.
He stares in amazement as the bricks rearrange themselves to form a doorway.
Harry steps through the doorway and into a strange new world.
Diagon Alley is a narrow crooked lane hustling with witches and wizards in flowing cloaks and pointed hats.
Hagrid towers over them all.
They pass tiny shops packed full of fascinating and unusual merchandize.
A selection of wizard's cloaks and hats.
A pet shop full of owls and cages.
An owl sits on a purge outside the shop.
A bat stretches its wings above Harry's head.
A group of children gaze enviously at a sleek broomstick in a shop window.
Harry looks worried.
All the clerks in Gringotts Bank are creepy little men with long noses and sharp pointed ears and teeth.
They count piles of money with nobly skinny fingers.
At the counter.
The clerk puts down his quill.
Hagrid digs into his pocket.
He hands over an envelope marked top secrete.
They travel on an under ground railway
The goblin guide gets off the train.
Hagrid hands it over.
He and Harry follow the goblin along the dank gloomy passage.
A goblin stops beside the door.
Hagrid takes the lamp and gives him the key.
He turns it in the lock.
The heavy steel door opens and Hagrid shrines the lamp inside the vault.
Harry blinks in amazement, guzzled by the site of vast piles of gleaming golden coins.
The goblin guide runs a long shaft fingernail down the center of the locking mechanism on the door of vault The door swings slowly open and Harry stares in surprise as the lamplight illuminates a very small badly wrapped package tide with string.
Hagrid steps inside the vault and snatches up the package.
He puts it in his pocket.
Harry nodes.
Back in Diagon Alley.
Harry consults his list.
Harry opens the door of Ollivanders.
He goes inside.
He gazes around the disserted shop, at the shelves full of dusky boxes.
An old man slides into view on a ladder.
He climbs down and looks along a shelf.
Mr. Ollivander takes a long narrow box from a shelf.
He carries it to the counter.
He opens the box and holds out a wand.
Harry takes it gently and looks at him.
Harry waves it.
Drawers fly open and wand boxes catapult on to the floor.
Mr. Ollivander chooses another box.
He opens it.
Harry waves the second wand.
A China vase shatters.
Mr. Ollivander picks out a third box and ponders for a moment.
He looks at Harry thoughtfully.
He carries the slim box to the counter and carefully opens it.
He takes out his slender wand of polished wood and holds it out.
Harry grips the one.
A bright light shines and a breeze blows through Harry's hair.
He points at Harry's forehead.
Hagrid knocks on the window.
He holds up a beautiful snowy owl in a cage.
The Leaky Cauldron Pub.
Touching his scar.
At King's Cross Station, passersby stare up at the huge Hagrid.
He takes out his watch.
Harry reads the ticket.
But Hagrid has disappeared.
But his pet snowy owl perched in its cage on top of his luggage.
Harry pushes his trolley across the station.
He finds Platform But the next platform is Platform He spots a porter.
Harry follows the woman and her family.
She holds a little girl by the hand and four red-haired boys hurry behind.
The tallest boy pushes his trolley towards a solid brick wall and disappears.
Harry looks on in amazement.
The boy lines up his trolley.
He disappears through the wall followed by his identical twin brother.
The little girl smiles at him.
Harry looks at the solid brick wall.
He aims his trolley, takes a deep breath, runs straight at the wall, and finds himself safely on the other side.
He pushes his trolley on to Platform 9 and three-quarters.
Harry smiles with delight.
Beside the platform, stands a handsome steam engine.
The train steams through the countryside.
Harry has a carriage to himself.
He sits by the window looking out at the passing scenery.
The red haired boy has a smudge of dirt on his nose.
Ron's eyes widen.
Harry pushes back his hair.
Ron holds up a bag of squashed sandwiches.
Harry pulls out a handful of gold coins.
The boys share the sweets.
Harry pulls a face.
Harry takes a bean out of his mouth then opens a box marked chocolate frog.
The frog jumps.
It leaps through the open window.
Harry sees a hologram on the card.
Harry looks again.
A rat.
Ron takes out a wand.
A girl at the door.
She pulls a wand out of her cloak and points it at Harry.
His broken spectacles are mended.
Harry glances at Ron.
On her way out, Hermione looks disapprovingly at Ron.
He rubs his nose.
The train draws into a small country station.
Waiting on the platform in Hagrid, holding a powerful lamp.
Wearing black cloaks over their school uniforms, the pupils are dwarfed by the giant Hagrid.
Ron gazes up at him in amazement.
Hagrid leads the way to the shores of a mysterious pitch- black lake.
Four at a time, the children crawl into small, wooden boats.
Each softly lit by lamps suspended by a pole.
The boats start to move.
Half hidden by clouds, the moon casts a faint blue light.
Mist rises from the water as the tiny wooden boats drift silently across the lake.
In the distance, the children see the turrets and towers of a vast castle perched high on the other side.
Light sparkles from hundreds of windows.
The children gaze in wonder at the huge imposing building.
It towers above them as the fleet of little boats glides closer to the cliff on which it stands.
Safely disembarked, the crowd of new students follow each other into the castle and up a wide marble staircase.
On the upper landing, long, thin fingers tap the stone balustrade patiently.
Standing in front of huge oak doors, the tall figure of Professor McGonagall faces the first-years as they reach the top of the stairs.
Neville Longbottom picks up his lost brown toad.
He looks up at Professor McGonagall nervously.
Ron snickers.
He holds out his hand, but Harry does not shake it.
Professor McGonagall returns and gives Malfoy a sharp, warning look.
The oak doors swing open and she leads the way into the magnificent great hall of Hogwarts School.
The first-years march down the center of the room, watched curiously by the rest of the school who was sitting at long tables.
Hermione looks up at the ceiling.
Hundreds of lighted candles floating mid-air above their heads, below a moonlit sky.
Professor McGonagall stops beside a patched and battered wizard's hat perched on a stool in front of the high table.
Hermione tries to calm herself.
Hermione sits.
Professor McGonagall puts the sorting hart on her head.
The hat speaks.
Delighted, Hermione runs to the Gryffindor table.
Malfoy sits down.
As the hat touches his head
A man with black hair is sitting next to Professor Quirrell.
Harry winces and touches his scar.
Ron steps forward nervously.
The sorting hat is placed on his head.
It recognizes him at once.
Ron sighs with relief and Harry smiles.
Professor Dumbledore leans forward with interest.
Hagrid holds his breath.
Harry steps up on to the platform.
He sits on the stool and the hat is placed on his head.
The sorting hat regards thoughtfully.
Hagrid and the professors join in the applause.
The other Gryffindors welcome Harry as he joins Ron and Hermione.
Harry looks up towards the high table.
Professor Dumbledore winks and raises his golden goblet in salute.
A wonderful banquet appears magically on the long tables.
The delighted children fill their plates.
Ron grabs a chicken drumstick in each hand and takes a bite from each one in turn.
Seamus introduces himself.
Harry turns to Ron's brother.
Suddenly, a ghostly head appears in the middle of the table.
More ghostly figures float around the great hall.
A lady with ringlets, a plump man in a monk's habit, and a cavalier with a sword and a long, curling wig.
They swoop above the tables.
Percy speaks to the ghost on the Gryffindor table.
He floats away.
Ron calls after him.
He tilts his half-severed head.
He puts it back.
Later, Percy leads them upstairs.
High above their heads, the staircases swing to different positions.
And the images in the portraits are alive.
A pretty flower girl curtsies.
An old man looks up from his book.
Along the corridor, Percy stops in front of a guilt-framed portrait.
The large lady in the picture has ringlets and wears a pink -silk dress.
She looks at them inquiringly.
She beckons graciously.
The portrait swings aside.
A cozy sitting room with a blazing fire.
In the boys dormitory, uniforms neatly folded on the chairs beside their four-poster beds.
All the boys are fast asleep except for Harry.
He is sitting in his pajamas on the wide-stone sill gazing out of the window with his knees tucked up under his chin.
Sitting beside him, his pet snowy owl turns its head as he gently strokes its soft, white feathers.
As Harry looks out through the diamond shaped window panes across the moonlit courtyard at the school, he gives a contented smile.
Next morning, Harry and Ron are late for class.
A tabby cat is sitting on the teacher's desk.
It looks up as they open the classroom door.
Hermione looks at them disapprovingly as they hurry into the room.
The cat leaps off of the table and turns into Professor McGonagall.
Later, the dark figure of Professor Snape sweeps into his classroom.
He fixes his eyes on Malfoy who smiles slyly.
Harry takes careful notes.
Snape spots him.
Hermione nudges Harry.
He puts his quill back in the inkwell.
Hermione holds up her hand.
Hermione knows.
Hermione is desperate to answer.
The great hall.
Seamus peers into a goblet.
Seamus' face is smudged with soot.
Owls carrying mail flutter in through a high window.
A parcel is dropped to one of the children below.
The graceful birds swoop amongst the carved oak beams and fly from one end of the great hall to the other, delivering letters and parcels to their delighted owners.
Ron has received a newspaper and some letters.
He puts the newspaper to one side.
Harry picks it up.
Neville unwraps a small glass ball.
It turns red.
Hermione looks at them both with narrowed eyes.
In the school grounds, a neat woman with spiky silver hair strides across the lawn.
Harry's broom leaps straight into his hand.
Malfoy catches his broomstick.
The others keep trying.
Ron's broom flies up and smacks him on the nose.
Neville's broomstick lifts him into the air.
Terrified he rises even higher.
The broom carries him higher above their heads.
He hangs on for dear life.
The broom swings him round in circles and crashes into the side of a stone tower.
It spins away just to turns again then dives towards the ground.
Madam Hooch takes out her hound.
The children scatter.
The broomstick carries Neville, and zooms up over the statues on the battlements.
His cloth gets caught on the sword and he drops the broomstick.
The cloak rips and gives way.
He plummets down and crashes heavily to the ground.
Her cloak flying, Madam Hooch runs across to Neville and gently lifts him up.
Malfoy finds the Remembrall.
Malfoy mumps his broom.
He flies on top of their heads.
Harry steps astride his broomstick.
Harry zooms after Malfoy.
Harry makes a grab but Malfoy spins out of reach.
Malfoy flings the Remembrall away with all his might.
The glass bowl flies over and over in the air.
Harry steers his broom.
Afterwards it soars a high stone tower.
Upstairs in her study, Professor McGonagall sees Harry hackling towards her window.
Just in time, he turns a neat somersault and catches the Remembrall, then tosses it victoriously into the air.
Professor McGonagall steps to the window and looks down into the courtyard, as Harry rejoins the cheering first-years.
Professor McGonagall walks towards them, purposefully.
Malfoy and his cronies snigger.
Still carrying his broomstick, Harry trails after Professor McGonagall.
She stops outside a classroom.
The twins.
Hermione shows him a name on a Gryffindor Trophy.
They go upstairs.
The staircase swings into a different position on the opposite wall.
Harry opens the door at the top of the stairs.
They see a statue covered in cobwebs.
A torch flares.
The caretaker's scary red-eyed cat watches them run down a torch-lit corridor.
Harry struggles with the latch.
Taking out her wand.
The door opens, and they rush through.
Filch, the caretaker.
He holds up a lantern and peers around suspiciously.
In the middle of the room is a gigantic dog with three enormous heads and three sets of sharp, glistening teeth.
The children rush for the door.
One of the slobbering heads is so enormous, it completely fills the doorway.
They slam the door shut.
Daylight.
Oliver and Harry carry a trunk out into the school grounds.
They set the trunk on the grass, and Oliver takes out a large, red ball.
Chained down, two brown balls struggle to escape.
Oliver gives Harry a wooden bat, then unchains one of the brown balls.
It shoots straight up, above their heads, almost out of sight.
Harry swings the bat.
He knocks the ball high into the air.
It flies over the head of a statue on the battlements.
The ball returns.
Oliver catches it, but the brown ball knocks him to the ground.
He struggles with it and with great difficulty, forces it back into the trunk and fastens it down with a strong chain.
He gives Harry a tiny, golden ball.
Delicate, golden wings spring out of the snitch.
And it flutters above Harry's head.
Ron flicks his wand.
Hermione flicks her wand.
A white feather rises from the desk and floats across the room towards tiny Professor Flitwick, who is standing on a pile of books.
Seamus' face is smudged with soot.
A smoldering feather sinks onto the desk.
Crossing the courtyard.
Hermione hurries past.
The Great Hall is lit with flaming torches.
Candles flicker and glow from the mouths of grinning pumpkins, which float above the heads of the students.
The tables are spread with a banquet of mouthwatering food, cakes, sweets, pies, and shiny red apples.
Harry looks at the empty chair beside him.
Suddenly, Professor Quirrell bursts into the hall.
Professor Dumbledore gets to his feet.
Quirrell faints.
As the students follow quickly into the Hall, Snape disappears through a side door.
Harry and Ron run back down the long stone corridor towards the girls' bathroom.
They hide as they see a monstrous shadow ahead of them.
The troll is dragging a heavy club.
Wiping her eyes, Hermione comes out of the toilet.
She sees two green legs as thick as great tree trunks.
Terrified, she stares up with horror at the troll's lumpy, green body blocking the doorway.
Its horrible head, which looks like a squashed, green potato, is almost touching the high ceiling.
Raising the club, the troll moves ominously towards her.
Hermione locks herself in a toilet.
The troll swings the club and smashes it along the row of cubicles.
The flimsy partitions fall on top of Hermione.
The boys burst into the bathroom.
As more cubicles are smashed to smithereens, they throw broken pieces of wood at the troll.
Ron hurls a length of metal pipe.
Hermione hides under a row of wash basins.
Terrified, she cowers against the pipes as the troll smashes a sink off the wall.
Harry pulls out his wand.
He grabs the swinging club and scrambles up onto the troll's back.
He tries to shake him off.
Harry hangs on with one hand.
But before he can use his wand, he accidentally rams it up the troll's nostril.
The angry troll holds Harry upside down, swinging him from side to side.
Ron takes out his wand.
The troll's club flies up into the air and hovers.
Then, it falls and hits the troll hard on its ugly, green head.
The troll drops Harry.
He scuttles out of the way, as the troll reels dizzily around then crashes heavily to the ground.
As the dust settles, Hermione creeps out from under the row of sinks.
Water sprays out of a shattered pipe.
She looks at the troll nervously.
Harry pulls his wand out of the troll's nostril.
He wipes it on his cloak.
Ron smiles at Harry.
Quirrell steps forward.
He jumps as the troll gives a snot.
At breakfast.
Snape appears.
Harry notices that Snape is limping.
Harry's snowy owl, flies into the great hall skimming over their heads.
It drops a long thin parcel.
Harry catches it.
They unwrap the brown paper, to reveal a streamline broomstick with a highly polished handle.
Stroking the white owl's feathers, Professor McGonagall smiles at Harry.
Wearing leather gloves and Scarlett and gold cloaks, the Gryffindor Quidditch team assemble in the player's tunnel.
Harry lines up next to the keeper, Oliver Wood.
Harry swallows nervously.
The gate opens and the teams steps forward.
One after the other, they fly out of the player's tunnel, and swoop around between the tall spectator towers, which surround the oval grassy arena.
A student, introduces the game.
In the stands, the Gryffindor supporters wear red and gold scarfs, Slytherin's colors are green and white.
The Slytherin team fly out in their green cloaks.
Standing around the oval arena, the spectators cheer on their teams.
Other spectators are seated at the top of tall towers hung with heraldic designs.
The players hover above the Quidditch trunk, which stands quivering in the center of the pitch.
She kicks the trunk.
The lid falls open and three boars fly out.
Madam Hooch lifts out the red Quaffle and throws it high into the air.
A Gryffindor chaser, Angelina, grabs the Quaffle and heads straight for the goal.
The spectators duck as the players swoop low over their heads.
The Slytherin players try to hit Angelina off.
But she's too quick for them.
She aims for the center hoop.
And the Quaffle sails straight through the middle.
The points go up on the score board.
Harry is nearly knocked off his broomstick by a passing Bludger.
Hagrid cheers on the Gryffindors.
Snape stares, Quirrell looks nervous.
The Slytherin captain gives Angelina a slight kick.
Dodging a Bludger, he hurls the Quaffle towards a hoop, then scowls as Oliver skillfully knocks it away and gives him a cheeky smile.
The Gryffindors capture the Quaffle.
Ducking and diving, they pass it around the team from chaser to chaser.
Well placed in front of the goal, Angelina catches the Quaffle and hurls it straight through the center of the hoop, past the helpless Slytherin keeper.
Twenty points on the score board.
The Gryffindor supporters are ecstatic.
The Slytherin captain aims again for the goal.
But Oliver catches the Quaffle.
The captain smiles angrily.
Snatching a bat from a beater, he deliberately hits a Bludger straight to Oliver, who falls backwards through the hoop.
He hurdles downwards landing heavily on the dry sand below the goal.
Harry stares with disbelief at the cheating Slytherin captain.
Malfoy and his cronies celebrate while Professor McGonagall watches anxiously.
A Slytherin sails over the beaters head and shoots accurately at the hoop.
The quaffle flies through.
Harry clenches his fists with frustration.
Ten points to Slytherin.
The Slytherin captain points at Angelina.
Slytherin captain and his teammate, one on each side, jostling and confusing her.
She collides with one of the tall spectator towers, tumbles down behind the canvas covering, and lies without moving on the gravel path below.
The professors rise to their feet.
A Slytherin chaser, tosses the Quaffle into the air and fixed it through the goal with his broomstick.
Twenty, old.
Hovering high above the pitch, Harry is following the game anxiously.
Suddenly, the Golden Snitch swoops past.
Harry speeds after it, dodging the Bludgers which aimed for his head.
His broomstick goes out of control.
It shakes him violently from side to side.
It spins Harry over and over.
Through her binoculars, Hermione spot Snape in the professors' grand stand.
His lips are moving.
She gives her binoculars to Ron.
Harry clings desperately to the bucking broomstick.
It spins him off.
But he manages to grab the handle and hangs underneath, holding on with only one hand.
Malfoy and his crouniers cheer.
Snape is still muttering to himself.
Harry grabs the broomstick with both hands.
It swings him backwards and forwards trying to shake him off.
Ron watches through the binoculars.
Hermione reaches the professors' grand stand and raises up the stairs.
Snape is still muttering.
She pulls out her wand.
Crawling beneath the seats, she gives the wonder flick.
She smiles as a flame appears.
Snape's cloak starts to burn.
The professors beat out the flames, knocking Quirrell off his feet.
Harry's broomstick suddenly calms down.
Quirrell and Snape put out the fire and watch Harry as he manages to regain control of the Nimbus He climbs onto the broomstick.
He zooms off to the Slytherin seeker, who is close behind the Snitch.
They fly shoulder to shoulder.
The crafty Slytherin barges Harry, trying to knock him out of the way.
Harry circles round, then comes back.
The Slytherin bully barges him again.
The Snitch flips from tower to tower then suddenly change his course and head straight for the ground.
The two seekers follow, but the cowardly Slytherin pulls out at the last moment as they plummet down head first.
The Snitch levels out, skimming low along the ground.
Standing precariously on the broomstick, Harry stretches out his hand to catch the Snitch.
He takes a step forward.
The broom tips up and sends him somersaulting over on to the grass.
He scrambles up, clutching his stomach with both hands.
His friends watched with concern.
Hagrid peers through the binoculars.
Harry spits out the Snitch.
As Madam Hooch declares the winner, the Gryffindors leap for joy.
Giant Hagrid punches the air victoriously.
Hermione shrieks at the top of her voice.
Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall applauds enthusiastically.
Snape remains in his seat, expressionless.
Standing in the middle of the arena, in his Scarlet and gold cloak, Harry beams with pride and pleasure.
As his teammate swoop around the arena on their broomsticks, celebrating their success, Harry holds the fluttering Golden Snitch, triumphing above his head and slowly turns, displaying his prize to his ecstatic supporters.
The courtyard.
Snow falls on to the tars and turrets of the school.
Wearing a huge fur coat, Hagrid plots across the snow covered courtyard, dragging behind him an enormous Christmas tree.
Inside the school, Hermione pulls a trunk on wheels past a group of ghostly Carol singers.
She goes into the great hole, where tiny Professor Flitwick waves his wand and levitates decorations onto a tall Christmas tree.
Hermione finds Ron and Harry playing chess at one of the long polished tables.
She walks down the brightly decorated hall to join them.
The white knight moves by itself.
Ron contemplates the board.
The red queen moves and knocks the knight's head off.
Harry's snowy owl turns its head, as he leaps out of bed and puts on his spectacles.
Down in the Gryffindor common room, Ron is standing in front of a blazing fire.
Harry runs bare foot down the stone stairs towards a pile of presents on the Christmas tree.
Harry picks up a parcel, while Ron dips into a box of every flavor beans.
Harry opens a letter.
He puts down the letter and unties the string on the parcel.
He unfolds the silver wrapping paper, and takes out some soft material with a rich dark pattern.
Harry swings it on to his shoulders.
His head is floating.
In the library, a floating hand carries a lantern between the bookshelves.
Under the invisibility cloak, Harry peers about him wearily.
Inside, he searches along more dark bookshelves.
Harry takes off the cloak and holds the lantern closer to a shelf.
Then he puts the light down.
As he takes down a book and opens it, a screaming face burst violently out of the pages.
Harry slams the book shut.
Grabbing his cloak, Harry knocks over the lamp.
He quickly puts on the invisibility cloak over his head and disappears.
Filch, the caretaker, holds up a lantern.
The lamp light shows up his thin lips.
Hidden by the invisibility cloak, Harry feels his way across the dark room.
He stops for a moment, as Filch passes by with his lantern.
He breathes a sigh of relief, as the caretaker goes out through a far door way.
Harry creeps into a moon lit corridor, where Filch's red- eyed cat is lurking.
Harry is still invisible.
As the cat runs past, two professors, Snape and Quirrell burst through a door.
Suddenly suspicious, Snape turns around.
Harry covers his mouth to muffle his breathing.
Snape makes a grab, but only snatches a hand full of air.
Harry takes a step backwards.
Snape turned sharply back to Quirrell.
A lamp.
Quirrell, Snape and Filch rush away down the corridor.
A door, in the far wall seems to open and close by itself.
In the classroom next door, Harry reappears as he takes off the invisibility cloak.
The moon light, filtering through the snow on the window panes, gives the empty classroom a mysterious air.
Harry looks around curiously.
Through a stone arch, he glimpses a large mirror and a carved frame that goes down a few steps into the room beyond.
As he walks slowly towards the mirror, he sees his own reflection getting closer.
He stops in front of it, and tries to read the writing carved around the wooden frame.
But the words are strange and unfamiliar.
Harry stands still for a moment, gazing at himself.
Then takes a step forward towards his reflection.
To his surprise, two shadowy figures gradually appear in the mirror, standing one on each side of him.
A young man and young women
Harry turns, but the room behind him is completely empty.
He looks back at the pretty young woman, and swallows nervously.
She nods and smiles.
Harry's kind looking father beams at him.
Harry stretches out a hand towards them, but his fingers only touch his reflection in the glass.
As his mother puts her hand on the shoulder of his reflection in the mirror, Harry puts a hand on his own shoulder.
His mother fondly smiles at him again.
Harry looks at her sadly.
Harry pulls the cover off Ron's bed.
In the empty classroom, they take off the invisibility cloak.
They run to the mirror.
With his knees tucked under his chin, Harry sits alone on the stone floor of the empty classroom, gazing into the mirror.
Professor Dumbledore appears by the window.
Harry gets to his feet.
Dressed in a warm black cloak, and wearing his red and gold Gryffindor scarf, Harry crosses the snow covered courtyard with his pet white owl perched on his arm.
The beautiful bird stretches its wings.
Harry lifts his arm, and the snowy owl balances for a moment, then launches itself into the air.
Harry watches, as it soars above his head, swooping around the courtyard, then up and over the grey stone tars of the school.
Flying higher and higher, until it disappears into the snow laden sky.
Now, the white owl flies back towards Hogwarts.
It passes the hoops of the Quidditch goal posts.
The snow has melted, and green grass has reappeared.
Fluffy white clouds float in the blue sky.
In the library.
Hermione gives Ron a withering look.
She finds the right page.
Hermione, Harry and Ron hurry across the wet grass towards a stone cottage on the edge of the forest.
He lets them in.
Wearing oven gloves, Hagrid takes something out of a pot hanging there at the fire.
He puts a huge black egg on the table.
The huge egg, shredders and twitches and suddenly bursts open.
A strange little greeny grey creature uncurls from the broken shell.
Its long black leg slips on the surface of the table.
It staggers and stretches spiky wings.
The dragon shoots flame.
Hagrid's beard catches fire.
He puts it out with his over gloves.
A face at the window.
Back in school.
Beside Professor McGonagall, Malfoy smirks.
Malfoy scowls angrily.
Carrying a lantern, Filch leads the four children out of the school.
Hagrid comes out of his cottage.
Hagrid picks up a crossbow.
A shaft of moon light shows the way, follow Hagrid and his dog, Fang, along the edge of the forest.
Even the huge giant is dwarfed by the tall trees, which rise up and disappear into the darkness above their heads.
Hagrid's lamp throws a feeble beam, as he leads them amongst the trees, deeper and deeper into the dark forest.
Twisted branches loom out of the darkness, throwing weird and frightening shadows.
Hagrid suddenly stops.
He bends down, and dips his fingers into a small pool of silvery liquid.
The huge giant looks around wearily.
They split up.
Malfoy raises the lamp, and he and Harry continue along the path, looking around them cautiously.
Fang keeps close beside them, then goes on ahead, his nose to the ground.
Suddenly, the big dog stops, and lift his head.
The boys catch up with him.
A hooded figure is crouching over a large white animal lying on the ground.
Harry clutches the scar on his forehead.
The hooded figure lifts his head.
Followed by Fang, Malfoy turns and runs, still carrying the lamp.
In the shadowy moon light, the hooded figure seems to rise up and hover above the dead unicorn.
It spreads its arms wide and moves ominously towards Harry.
Terrified, he backs away.
The figure gets closer and closer.
Harry trips over a twisted tree root and falls backwards.
He lies helpless on the ground, as the hooded figure advances.
Suddenly, something jumps over his head in a flurry of hooves.
It attacks the dark figure, who turns and disappears into the mist.
Harry scrambles to his feet and looks up at a dark-skinned centaur with a red beard, half man, half horse.
Harry nods.
As the centaur leaves them, they look sadly at the body of the dead unicorn.
The common room.
The boys look blank.
Harry is not convinced.
Crossing the courtyard.
Harry sees Hagrid sitting outside his cottage playing a tune.
Cloaks flying, they run towards the cottage.
They look at each other.
The children run back into the school and into Professor McGonagall's classroom.
They rush up to her desk.
Slowly, they turn and leave.
Outside in the corridor.
He stares hard at Harry.
Snape stalks away along the corridor, his black cloak billowing behind him.
The school is silhouetted against moonlit clouds.
Harry, Ron and Hermione creep downstairs into the common room.
They spot Neville's toad.
Neville gets up from a chair.
Neville freezes and falls over backwards.
Leaving Neville, they all huddle under the invisibility cloak.
Hermione unlocks the door on the third floor.
A harp is playing by itself.
They take off the cloak.
The three-headed dog is asleep.
They take hold of it.
Between them, they push the dog's huge paw off the trapdoor.
The dog breathes out, and they stagger back.
They lift the wooden cover and stare down into the black hole beneath.
Dog dribble hits Ron.
The dog opens its three mouths.
They throw themselves into the hole.
The dog destroys the trapdoor.
They have landed on something soft.
The plant begins to move.
Slithering tentacles snake over them, twisting around their arms and legs, and twining around their necks.
The boys struggle to free themselves.
Hermione suddenly slithers out of sight.
Harry slithers after her.
She points her wand.
A flash of light dissolves the plant.
Ron falls through to join them.
Harry frowns at him.
They go through a door into a room with solid stone pillars.
Small winged objects flit above their heads.
A shabby broomstick is hanging in the air.
Ron tries the locked door.
Harry looks at the broomstick.
Harry nods, puts out his hand, and takes hold of the broomstick.
At once, the hundreds of metal keys swarm dangerously around his head.
Harry climbs onto the broomstick and steers it upwards.
Harry suddenly spots the key with a broken wing.
It zooms upwards out of his reach.
He points the broom after the key as it flies towards a high window.
It turns back and Harry grabs it.
He throws it to Hermione who quickly puts it into the lock.
The flying keys go mad and chase after Harry like a swarm of bees.
Hermione and Ron push open the door and Harry zooms inside.
The door closes after him, and unable to stop, the keys herd into it.
A room full of strange shadows.
Huge broken stone statues lie about the floor.
Ron, Harry, and Hermione come into the gloomy room and walk slowly between the piles of shattered figures.
Ron looks around the room.
Torches flare up showing a floor of huge black and white squares.
Great stone chess pieces face each other across the enormous marble chessboard.
Fierce warriors bar their way with drawn swords.
The white pawns.
They sheath their swords.
They join the black chess pieces.
Ron climbs onto the stone horse of the black knight.
Ron looks across the board.
A white pawn moves itself forward.
Hermione looks at Ron anxiously.
Obeying Ron's instructions, a black pawn moves forward.
The white pawn slices off its head.
The game gets under way.
A white bishop explodes.
A white knight hits the dust.
A black pawn is destroyed.
A white bishop and a white knight explode.
The white queen attacks a black castle.
It explodes in a shower of stone fragments.
The castle is destroyed.
It collapses in a pile of rubble.
The queen turns triumphantly.
Ron contemplates his next move.
Watching the merciless white queen, Harry suddenly understands the game that Ron is playing.
Harry nods.
Taking a deep breath, Ron clutches the horse's reins.
He closes his eyes as the black horse starts to move across the board, between the remains of the shattered stone chess pieces.
Ron looks nervously at the white king, who wears a silver helmet.
Clasping a powerful sword, his hands are encased in metal armor.
Ron braces himself.
The white queen slowly turns.
She moves steadily across the board, heading straight towards Ron's black horse.
He clings onto the reins, shaking with fear, as the queen gets closer and closer, gliding over the smooth marble floor.
She stabs the black horse.
Ron falls off.
The horse crashes beside him.
Hermione steps hurriedly back onto her square.
She looks anxiously towards Ron, who is lying unconscious.
Harry moves into the winning position.
Confidently, he looks up at the white king.
The white king's huge sword falls from his hands.
It lies on the marble floor at Harry's feet.
He and Hermione run to Ron, and kneel beside him.
Harry gets to his feet.
Still kneeling beside Ron, Hermione watches him go.
Outside the chest room, Harry walks cautiously down a flight of white dimly lit stone steps.
As he descends the stairs, he touches the scar on his forehead and he sees a figure wearing a turban looking into the Mirror of Erised, Professor Quirrell.
Harry touches his scar.
Quirrell stares into it.
Quirrell stretches out his hand.
And Harry is reluctantly drawn towards him.
Harry looks into the Mirror of Erised.
Harry stares at his reflection.
His reflection stares back at Harry, then puts its hand in its pocket and takes out a red stone.
His reflection winks at Harry, shows him the stone, and put it back in its pocket.
Secretly, Harry feels in his own pocket.
There is something there.
Quirrell looks impatient.
Harry backs away, standing with his back to the mirror.
Quirrell unwinds the turban from his head.
A horrible face appears, growing out of the back of Quirrell's head.
The eyes sunk in dark sockets, and the skin stretched over the bony skull.
Harry turns to run.
A sheet of flame blocks his way.
They appear in the mirror.
Harry takes the red stone in his pocket, and looks at it.
Harry's parents disappear.
Quirrell flies through the air and detects Harry who falls over backwards.
The glowing philosopher's stone drops from his hand.
He stretches out desperately to reach it.
But Quirrell is trying to choke him.
Harry grabs Quirrell's hand.
Surprises.
Quirrell pulls away.
He holds out his hand in front of him and sees it crumble into grey dust.
Quirrell lurches towards the stone.
Harry's hands push against Quirrell's face which also disintegrates into dust.
Harry stares at his own hands in horror.
Quirrell reaches out towards him, then crashes to the ground.
His whole body turned to a pile of dust.
Voldemort has also disappeared.
Puzzled, Harry stares at his hands again, then looks around for the philosopher's stone.
The dark red crystal is lying on the stairs.
A small flame flickers inside it.
Harry picks it up and looks at it for a moment.
Smiling with relief, he clutches it tightly in his hand.
He turns quickly as the cloud of swirling dust gathers behind him.
Voldemort's face appears and screams towards Harry in a violent rushing wind, knocking him off balance.
The wind seems to pass through Harry's body that whirls away like a tornado up the stone steps and disappears.
Harry lies unconscious.
Still holding in his hand, the philosopher's stone which flickers and glows a rich, deep, red.
When Harry wakes, he's in bed in the hospital wing.
He rubs his eyes.
His face is pale, and he has a bandage on one hand.
He sits up, reaches out for his spectacles and puts them on.
He smiles as he sees the get-well cards, and the table at the bottom of his bed piled high with boxes of sweets.
Professor Dumbledore walks in.
He sees the sweets.
He picks up an empty box.
He sits on Harry's bed.
Harry touches his scar.
He touches Harry's head, and gets up.
He chews thoughtfully.
Wearing his black cloak, Harry walks along a corridor, and sees Ron and Hermione talking together on an upper landing.
Smiling happily, he stops and looks up at them.
They catch sight of him.
Harry's smile gets even wider.
At a bank, within the great hall, the students are wearing their robes and pointed hats.
At the high table, Professor Dumbledore gets to his feet and looks around the whole.
Malfoy smirks.
The Gryffindors join in the applause halfheartedly.
Filch, the caretaker, stands at the back, stroking his cat.
Snape applauds, and Malfoy smiles nastily at Ron and Harry.
Harry claps Hermione on the back.
Malfoy and his cronies look sick, while Hagrid smiles delightedly.
Ron stares at Harry with astonishment.
Professor McGonagall beams at Harry.
As the Gryffindors celebrate, Hermione looks excited.
Neville can't believe it.
He looks completely stunned.
As the Gryffindors congratulate him, Malfoy and his cronies sit stony-faced.
The green and white banners above their heads change to scarlet and gold.
Hagrid punches the air.
The delighted young wizards fling their pointed hats high above their heads.
Malfoy throws his hat onto the table in disgust.
The triumphant Gryffindors celebrate their victory.
Harry beams at Hagrid, who raises his bushy eyebrows, nods and smiles.
At the station.
A porter puts the snowy owl carefully into the guard's van.
Harry sees Hagrid waving goodbye.
He runs along the crowded platform till he reaches Hagrid.
He takes a red book from his pocket.
Harry opens the photo album and sees a magic moving photograph of his parents, holding a child.
Harry, when he was a little boy.
His mother kisses the child's hand.
Harry looks up at his friend.
He shakes his huge hand and gives the giant a hug.
Smiling, Harry joins his friends.
He looks back down the platform.
Hagrid waves again, as the children climb into the carriage and Harry closes the door.
As the train starts to move, Harry leans out of the window to wave goodbye.
Hagrid gives one more wave, then turns.
He walks slowly away along the deserted platform, as the train gathers speed.
High on a hill beyond the station, Hogwarts School rises above green fields,its towers and turrets outlined against the sky.
Behind the shield, a faint light flashes on and off from the bedroom window of a suburban house.
The light is flashing from beneath a bed sheet.
Harry Potter suddenly emerges from under the sheet and pretends to be asleep.
Uncle Vernon, wearing a dressing gown, puts on the light and glares around the room.
He switches off the light and goes out.
Harry pulls the sheet back over his head.
He waves the wand over a spell book.
The wand grows brightly.
It glows even more brightly.
The light flashes again under the sheet.
Uncle Vernon looks in again but Harry pretends to be asleep.
Harry snuggles down in bed.
Daylight.
Aunt Marge thrusts a wet umbrella at Harry.
She bustles into the sitting room with her bulldog with her.
She greets her nephew, Dudley.
Harry clears the table.
Ripper licks her plate.
She gives Ripper brandy and glares at Harry.
Uncle Vernon gives Harry a warning look.
Her glass shatters.
She clicks her fingers at Harry.
Harry shakes with rage.
Lights start to flash and plates rattle.
As Aunt Marge wags her finger at Harry, the tip begins to swell.
Her cheeks bulge.
Her bottom swells to fill the chair.
Ladders appear in her stockings as her legs grow to twice their normal size.
The seams on her tweed jacket burst apart.
Her neck inflates.
The top button of her blouse pings across the room and hits the clock.
Vernon and Petunia watch with horror.
Dudley goes on eating.
Ripper bites Vernon's leg.
Aunt Marge rises into the air.
The beads of her necklace scatter.
She bursts out of the chair.
A flying button hits Dudley.
A second button knocks him sideways.
Marge grabs the tablecloth.
She floats even higher and hits the ceiling.
Aunt Marge turns upside down showing her bloomers and floats into the conservatory.
She bumps against the glass roof.
She sails out into the garden.
Vernon struggles after her with Ripper clinging to his leg.
He grasps her hands.
Ripper's still attached.
All three are lifted off the ground.
Vernon lets go and falls onto the grass.
Aunt Marge floats away like a huge balloon.
Helplessly, Vernon and Petunia gaze after her.
Dudley is still eating and watching television.
Harry quickly runs upstairs.
Angrily kicking the cupboard.
He sits on his bed.
He looks at the photograph on the bedside table of his parents dancing happily together.
He drags his trunk down the stairs.
He points his wand at Vernon.
Harry leaves the house dragging his trunk on a small set of wheels.
In the distance, Aunt Marge is a faint speck in the darkening sky.
Harry walks quickly, breathing hard as he pulls the heavy trunk along the deserted streets.
The street lights are reflected in the puddles on the damp pavements.
At last, he slows down and looks around him.
Ahead is a small patch of worn grass in a children's playground.
He's alone.
He sits wearily on the edge of the pavement, hunching his shoulders against the cold and damp.
He looks up as the streetlight above his head flickers and goes out.
In the playground, the empty swings begin to move.
The roundabout turns and a seesaw clumps down onto the grass.
In front of him, a huge black dog looms out of the bushes.
Harry slowly rises to his feet.
Harry pulls out his wand and stumbles backwards onto the pavement.
A bright light approaches.
A purple triple-decker bus draws up.
The conductor reads from a dirty piece of card.
Putting the card in his pocket, he looks down at Harry.
Harry stares nervously at the bushes.
Stan picks up the trunk.
And Harry steps inside the bus.
On the lower deck is a row of beds, one of which is occupied.
Above his head, Harry sees galleries and a chandelier hanging from the roof.
Stan Shunpike turns the handle of his machine and gives Harry a bus ticket.
Stan knocks on the driver's window.
The Rastafarian shrunken head, hanging above the driver, laughs.
Ernie starts the bus.
Harry falls backwards onto a bed.
Ernie peers through thick glasses and drives erratically.
The bus screeches to a halt.
Harry's face hits the window.
An old lady with a walking frame shuffles in front of the bus.
Harry sees a picture in Stan's newspaper.
Two London buses drive straight at them.
Ernie pulls a lever.
The bus and it's occupants become narrow enough to squeeze between them.
The bus hurdles off again down a narrow street.
Harry hits the window again.
They bump a parked car.
Tom, the hunchback innkeeper, grins at Harry.
The purple bus disappears into the night.
Harry follows Tom into the Leaky Cauldron.
Inside the gloomy public house, a man sits reading a book while a spoon stirs itself around a cup.
Chairs turn themselves upside down onto the tables.
In a room upstairs, Harry finds his snowy owl and the Minister for Magic, Mr. Fudge.
As Tom hauls him up, Harry calls his owl.
Harry gazes down at the busy marketplace below his window.
A high-level train rattles past.
Harry goes to the pile of books on the low table by the fire.
One of the books is growling.
He looks at its hairy cover, staring, glassy eyes and sharp, pointed teeth.
Suddenly, the book goes berserk, snapping its covers.
It leaps out of his hands and starts to snap at his feet.
Harry jumps up onto the bed.
The book scurries underneath in a flurry of torn paper.
Harry lies down and peers under the bed.
The book lies still, then snaps once more and slithers out, turning this way and that.
It slides back under the bed
Harry quickly unties his shoelace and dangles his shoe over the edge of the bed.
He drops his shoe onto the floor and the book hurtles out, snapping its covers.
Harry jumps onto the book with both feet.
In the corridor, a maid knocks at the room next door.
Harry goes downstairs.
A ginger cat chases a rat down the corridor.
They pass a wanted poster for Sirius Black.
The Hogwarts Express.
Mrs. Weasley passes Ron his rat.
A man is asleep in a compartment.
Harry slides the door closed.
Steam billows from the funnel as the Hogwarts Express travels through the rain beside the edge of a vast lake.
Harry peers along the corridor.
The door slides shut.
The lights go out.
Ron stares out of the window into the rain.
The Express has stopped on a viaduct.
One by one, the carriages go dark.
The train lurches again.
The air has turned so cold that they can see their breath.
Ron pulls his hand away from the window as frost spreads across the glass.
Ice forms in Professor Lupin's bottle of water.
He is still asleep in the corner, wrapped in his cloak.
The train lurches again.
Hermione shivers.
Something appears out in the corridor floating towards the door, something black, shapeless and mysterious.
It reaches out.
The door slides open and a horrible hand with long fingers like crooked, dead twigs reaches around it into the compartment.
A hooded black shape looms in the doorway.
Hermione's cat spits.
Ron's rat, Scabbers, hides under his coat.
The hideous cloaked figure floats into the compartment and faces Harry.
He stares helplessly at the terrifying creature.
It seems to draw the energy out of him.
His body goes stiff.
Professor Lupin throws off his cloak and points his wand at the threatening figure.
In a flash of light, it hurtles backwards and disappears.
Harry loses consciousness.
Harry opens his eyes.
He is lying on the seat.
Hermione hands him his glasses and he puts them on.
Looking confused, Harry takes the piece of chocolate from Professor Lupin.
He gets up.
He turns and smiles.
Ron and Hermione stare at Harry.
Harry looks at the rain teeming down outside the window.
He stares at his own worried face reflected in the glass.
Horseless carriages take the students up to Hogwarts Castle.
They assemble in the Great Hall for the welcoming feast.
Lighted candles hang above their heads as they sit at the long tables listening to the choir.
Each singer in the front row holds a huge toad.
Professor Lupin stands and nods to the students.
Hagrid, the huge giant stands up, knocking into the table.
He extinguishes a candle.
The candle relights itself.
Leaving the Hall.
Harry and his friends climb the moving staircase towards a portrait of a fat lady holding a glass and singing.
She smashes the glass against a pillar.
The portrait swings back and they go into the common room.
A ghost walks through them.
The boys try magic sweets.
Neville chews the sweet.
Ron tries one.
Steam shoots from Harry's ears.
Outside the window, the rain lashes down.
Lightning flashes.
As the storm rages around Hogwarts Castle, the black- cloaked Dementors hover outside the grounds of the school.
A small bird flies along the stone cloister.
It swoops down a grassy slope towards a crooked willow tree.
The tree pulls back a branch and thwacks the bird.
Feathers fly.
A classroom.
She recoils.
Outside the school.
The students follow Hagrid around the edge of the sunlit forest to a grassy clearing surrounded by a low wall.
Malfoy strokes his monster book, and it purrs contentedly.
Malfoy slowly approaches Harry.
He stares at him arrogantly then, looking terrified, points over Harry's shoulder.
Harry spins round.
His cronies pull up their hooded cloaks.
Neville looks bedraggled.
A magnificent creature stands in front of them.
All but Harry step back.
Ron gives Harry a push.
Harry moves forward, nervously.
Harry bows.
The creature flaps its huge wings.
It bows its birdlike head.
Hagrid throws a tidbit.
Malfoy pushes to the front.
Harry stretches out his hand.
Hermione clutches Ron's hand.
They both look embarrassed.
Harry pats it.
Hagrid smacks the beast's hindquarters.
It raises its huge wings and takes off.
Harry hangs on desperately to Buckbeak's feathery neck.
The four-legged creature, half-horse, half-eagle, rises above the trees.
In the distance, Harry can see a river winding its way down the valley, the strong wings of the hippogriff carrying them even higher.
They sail between the towers and turrets of Hogwarts School and soar above the craggy hillside.
The silvery sun filters down through the storm clouds turning the waters of a vast lake below them to a steely gray.
Clinging to the creature's neck, Harry sees his reflection in the water as Buckbeak skims low over the lake, one huge claw just touching the surface.
Harry relaxes, enjoying the sensation.
A huge smile crosses his face and he spreads his arms wide.
Harry grabs hold of the feathery neck once more as the huge wings lift them up and away from the lake.
At last, Hagrid calls them back.
The hippogriff soars down through the treetops, flaps its wings as a brake and lands in a clearing.
Hagrid lifts Harry down.
Malfoy struts forward.
Buckbeak rears and attacks Malfoy.
Hagrid lifts Malfoy up.
As Hagrid carries Malfoy away, the hippogriff gently nudges Harry.
He strokes its beak.
Back at Hogwarts, a ghostly knight crashes through a window carrying a severed head.
A headless horseman follows him through the Great Hall.
Harry stares at the picture of Sirius Black in the newspaper.
He sees a raging man with wild, staring eyes struggling violently with his prison guards.
A foxglove grows in stony ground.
A Dementor floats past.
Frost appears on the petals and the flower immediately dies.
A wardrobe.
He whispers to Neville.
The wardrobe door slowly opens and Professor Snape steps out.
Snape is dressed as an old lady with a red handbag.
Ron is pushed to the front.
Ron steps forward, reluctantly.
Snape becomes a huge, black spider.
Ron's hair stands on end as it moves towards him, clicking its pincers.
He reaches for his wand.
It wears roller-skates.
It sprawls across the floor.
Parvarti faces a huge cobra.
A jack in the box.
Harry steps forward.
Lupin watches him closely.
A hideous Dementor.
Lupin jumps in front of him.
A full moon appears, half hidden by clouds.
The moon becomes a balloon.
It zooms around the classroom and back into the wardrobe.
Ron and Hermione follow the other students, leaving Harry alone in the quadrangle.
Harry talks to Professor Lupin.
Harry grins, proudly.
On the staircase.
The other portraits are distraught.
Weeping and wailing, the painted characters run from picture to picture.
Dumbledore and Filch, the caretaker, stare at the empty painting.
Dumbledore runs his finger across the slashed canvas as Filch looks around, suspiciously.
In a picture of the African plains, the fat lady hides behind a hippopotamus.
The heavy portcullis is lowered.
The huge gates are closed and firmly secured by a system of strong iron locks, which swing neatly into place, one after the other.
The Dementors keep guard outside the school as all of the students sleep in the Great Hall.
Harry is wide-awake and listening.
On the ceiling of the Great Hall, a star shoots across the celestial sky.
A single autumn leaf flutters down from the Whomping Willow, then all the leaves fall at once and the tree shakes its bare branches.
Snape enters the classroom and closes the shutters with his wand.
He pulls down a screen.
They open their books.
Malfoy has his arm in a sling.
He taps a projector and turns Ron's pages.
Malfoy throws Harry an animated cartoon of Harry being hit on the head in a Quidditch match.
An umbrella is whirled aloft by a gale force wind.
Around the Quidditch pitch, sodden spectators stand in the driving rain, cheering their teams.
Barely visible, a Golden Snitch flutters past.
Lightning sets the broomstick of a Gryffindor player on fire.
Wearing goggles as protection from the rain, Harry swoops past the stand where the professors follow the action.
He keeps close behind the Hufflepuff seeker as they both spot the Golden Snitch.
As Diggory reaches out to grab it, lightning catapults him backwards on his broomstick.
Harry peers into the hazy clouds.
Looming above him, they form the menacing shape of a huge, black dog.
He hovers for a moment until the Golden Snitch appears in front of him.
He makes a grab for it but it zooms sharply away.
Harry swerves back to follow it.
As he reaches out, thick ice begins to form on the handle of his broomstick.
He shakes his head as his goggles freeze over.
An ominous black shape flaps past, a lost umbrella tossed by the ferocious wind.
Ghastly figures swirl towards him out of the lowering storm clouds.
Harry finds himself surrounded by hooded Dementors.
He twists and turns to avoid them.
He is catapulted backwards.
A Dementor looms over Harry and opens its great mouth as if to suck his energy.
Harry loses his grip on the broomstick and falls, helplessly, down through the clouds.
Spectators watch in horror as he hurtles towards the ground.
Dumbledore uses a spell to break his fall.
The hospital wing.
Harry opens his eyes.
Harry's snowy owl, Hedwig, flies along the valley.
The bird approaches the school in a heavy snowstorm and sails past the clock tower.
Behind the clock face, Harry looks down as his friends set off without him to visit Hogsmeade.
Footprints appear in the snow.
The Weasley twins, Fred and George, grab Harry under his invisibility cloak.
He taps the blank parchment with his wand.
Harry opens the map.
The images disappear.
A heavy fleck stone slowly rises.
Harry finds himself in the cellar at Honeydukes.
Wearing his invisibility cloak, he climbs a wooden staircase.
Honeydukes' busy sweet shop is full of Hogwarts students choosing confectionary.
Neville's red lollipop is snatched from his hand and flips out into the street.
Ron and Hermione are close to a shabby house.
A snowball hits Malfoy.
Another snowball flies out of the forest.
Malfoy and his cronies look around for their invisible attacker.
One loses his trousers.
Another is swung round by his scarf.
Malfoy is dragged by his feet towards the Shrieking Shack.
Malfoy scrambles to his feet and runs away, followed by his cronies.
Harry becomes visible.
Ron and Hermione follow his footprints to the pub, but are not allowed inside.
Harry looks shocked.
He leaves the pub.
Hermione sees his footprints.
A group of elves are knocked aside.
Ron and Hermione follow the footprints in the snow until they reach the edge of the forest.
Ron hangs back as Hermione walks across a clearing in the trees towards the sound of crying.
Falling snow deadens her footsteps.
Kneeling beside her friend, Hermione puts out a hand and pulls off the invisibility cloak.
Harry looks at her miserably.
A yellow butterfly flutters above the emerging snowdrops.
The Whomping Willow twists its trunk and shakes the snow from its branches.
Lupin's room.
Harry nods.
Harry grasps his wand.
Unlocking a trunk, Lupin releases a Dementor.
Harry collapses into blackness.
Chocolate.
Harry nods.
Lupin opens the trunk.
A powerful silver mist flows from Harry's wand, shielding him from the terrifying power of the threatening Dementor.
With determination and willpower, he gradually forces it to retreat inside the open trunk.
Laughing with delight, Lupin slams down the lid.
In the quadrangle.
At the lake.
Hagrid skims a stone.
He skims another.
His face crumples.
He hurls a stone into the water, distraught.
The school corridors are dark and deserted.
In the boys' dormitory, Harry is sitting up in bed eating a biscuit and reading the Marauder's Map by the light of his wand.
Ron half-wakes from a bad dream.
Ron goes back to sleep.
Harry tracks Filch the caretaker's footprints around the map, then spots another name, Peter Pettigrew.
He stares in surprise.
Harry goes into the corridor.
An old man in a portrait shields his eyes from Harry's brightly lit wand.
Harry consults the map.
As he walks along the corridor, his own name and footprints appear on the parchment.
Moving cautiously, Harry shines the lighted wand into dark, empty corners.
He checks the map.
Peter Pettigrew's footprints move erratically across the map.
Harry watches them as they run this way and that, then appear to be heading down the corridor straight towards him.
He swings round in a panic, holding up the wand.
He sees his own reflection in a mirror.
More portraits object to the light.
Harry taps the map and puts out his wand.
Snape points his lighted wand at Harry.
Harry opens the map.
Snape touches it with his wand.
Writing appears on the parchment.
Grabbing the map.
As Harry follows Lupin, the portraits glare at Snape.
A classroom.
He indicates the Marauder's Map.
Lupin stares in disbelief.
A crystal ball.
Hermione knocks the crystal ball onto the floor, picks up her bag and marches out of the room.
The crystal ball rolls after her down the corridor.
Later, on a circular staircase.
Carrying the crystal ball, Harry goes back up the stairs and along the corridor.
He goes back into Professor Trelawney's cluttered classroom.
He looks around at the overstuffed furniture and shelves of teacup.
Harry sees something swirling around inside the crystal ball.
He moves closer and peers into the mist.
He sees the face of Sirius Black.
A hand claps him on the shoulder.
Bemused, Professor Trelawney gazes at Harry.
A worried look on his face, he runs out of the room and hurries away down the circular staircase.
Outside, in a ruined part of the castle, crows alight on the fallen masonry.
Hermione, Harry and Ron peer through a ruined archway.
A man wearing a black hood is sharpening the curved blade of a huge axe.
They leave the school, walk through the cloister and into the grounds.
Malfoy and his cronies are on the slope above Hagrid's cottage.
Furious, Hermione threatens Malfoy, her wand at his throat.
He's terrified.
As she turns away, Malfoy smirks.
She turns back and punches him full in the face.
Malfoy and his cronies make a run for it.
She smiles at Ron.
Ron, Harry and Hermione run down the steep steps cut into the grassy slope towards Hagrid's cottage.
They find him gazing sadly out of the window at Buckbeak, who is chained to a post in the pumpkin patch.
A line of dead ferrets is hanging nearby.
He feeds a small creature.
He opens a small blue tin and takes out Ron's rat.
Another pebble hits Harry.
They look out of the window and see Fudge, Dumbledore and the Executioner making their way towards the cottage.
He ushers them out.
They peer out of the back door.
At the front door, Hagrid welcomes his guests.
Harry, Ron and Hermione escape from the cottage and run down the garden path.
They hide behind a huge pile of giant orange pumpkins.
A crow lands beside them as they anxiously watch the cottage.
Hermione spins round and peers into the forest.
They run as fast as they can away from the cottage and up the grassy slope.
Buckbeak watches them go.
Harry glances back at the hippogriff still chained to a post in the pumpkin patch, then he follows his friends.
Halfway up the hill, they stop and look back towards the cottage.
Smoke rises from the stone chimney.
Dumbledore, Fudge and Hagrid come out of the cottage with the Executioner.
He walks across the garden, carrying his sharp axe over his shoulder.
He moves through the pumpkin patch towards Buckbeak.
They watch horrified as the Executioner raises his axe.
The huge blade swings down.
Hermione hides her face on Ron's shoulder, putting her arms around his neck.
Suddenly, Ron drops his rat, blood on his finger.
Ron chases the rat.
Harry and Hermione follow Ron.
Ron catches Scabbers and slumps down near the Whomping Willow with its twisted trunk.
Ron points, his hand shaking.
The huge, black dog leaps over their heads, grabs Ron's leg and drags him towards the tree.
Still holding Scabbers, Ron is dragged under the roots.
Harry makes a grab for him.
A branch knocks Harry and Hermione over.
The Whomping Willow waves its branches menacingly.
Cautiously, they move towards it.
The tree attacks them.
A branch lashes down.
Harry loses his glasses.
Hermione jumps over a swinging branch, but the next one lifts her off the ground.
Harry rolls over as the tree lashes out.
He sprints off into flailing branches as Hermione is whirled above his head.
Scratched by the sharp twigs, Hermione is twisted this way and that as she clings to the branch.
She is turned upside down.
Harry finds his glasses and puts them on to see Hermione flying towards him.
Desperately, she grabs hold of his T-shirt.
He is hauled into the air.
They hurtle around until Hermione lets go and Harry falls down the hole under the tree roots.
Hermione lands on top of him.
Ahead of them is a flight of steps cut into the twisted roots.
They start to climb.
Harry and Hermione climb up through a trapdoor under bare floorboards.
A faint light filters through wooden shutters.
They go up a rickety staircase and along a dingy landing.
In a dilapidated room.
Huge paw prints on the dusty floor lead across the room to a wild-eyed man with matted hair and a ragged convict's uniform.
Hermione stands in front of Harry.
Pushing Hermione aside, Harry knocks the man down and threatens him with his wand.
Harry's wand flies out of his hand.
Professor Lupin helps Sirius to his feet.
The children stare, horrified, as Sirius embraces him.
Lupin narrows his eyes.
Lupin looks from Sirius to Harry.
Then gives Sirius his wand.
Snape enters.
Harry slides Hermione's wand from her pocket.
Snape flies backwards.
Sirius grabs the rat.
It runs across the piano.
It scurries towards a rat hole.
Lupin and Sirius wave their wands.
They drag out a pudgy little man with sharp, pointed teeth.
He rubs his beady little eyes.
One finger on his left hand is missing.
He tries to run.
They stop him.
Pettigrew grabs Harry.
He is pulled away.
Pettigrew sinks to his knees.
Harry and Sirius help Ron out from the hole under the tree.
Hermione sits beside him.
Sirius gazes towards the distant lights of Hogwarts.
Harry watches Sirius anxiously.
Lupin appears with Pettigrew.
Lupin pulls him away.
Hermione points to the sky.
A full moon appears from behind the clouds.
They all stare at Professor Lupin.
As the moonlight touches his face, his eyes turn green and his face distorts.
Pettigrew grabs Lupin's wand.
Pettigrew turns back into a rat and runs off, leaving only a pile of clothes.
Hermione grabs Harry's arm to stop him from following.
Lupin's fingers turn to claws.
He bursts out of his clothes.
His limbs grow thin and twisted.
His face becomes a long snout with sharp teeth.
He flings Sirius aside and stands whimpering.
Hermione slowly approaches.
The creature looks at her pathetically.
It howls to the moon.
Snape appears.
The werewolf lashes out at him.
The black dog leaps out of the shadows.
It knocks the werewolf to the ground.
The animals face each other growling, then both leap to the attack.
They collide in mid air, then fall, snarling and biting.
The dog runs off, chased by the werewolf.
Harry follows and sees the werewolf hurling the dog against a rock.
Harry throws a stone and hits the werewolf on the back of the head.
It turns slowly and lopes menacingly towards him.
It stops and lifts its head.
It runs towards the sound of the howling.
From where the dog fell, a figure gets up and limps away through the bushes.
Harry follows the figure, hurrying through the trees towards the moonlit lake.
He runs down the bank and across the stony shore to the edge of the water.
Sirius is lying on his back, his eyes closed, a bloody claw mark on his shoulder.
The water lapping the shore stops moving as a sheet of crackling ice spreads over the surface of the lake.
Sirius opens his eyes and shudders with horror.
Harry looks up.
A swarm of hooded Dementors are circling above their heads, their black cloaks fluttering behind them.
One swoops down and attacks Sirius.
Harry pulls out his wand and points it at the Dementors.
A silver mist forms a protective shield and the Dementors are held back.
But the power of Harry's wand fades and the Dementors return to the attack.
He cries out in horror as he falls back onto the stony beach beside Sirius.
Again, the Dementors circle overhead, then swoop lower and lower, hovering over the two figures lying helpless below as life is gradually sucked out of them.
A faint, silvery breath floats from Sirius' half-open mouth, illuminating his face.
Exhausted, Harry lifts his head.
To his surprise, the Dementors are floating harmlessly.
He sees something shining on the far side of the frozen lake.
Glowing amongst the trees, a magnificent silver stag with huge antlers stands facing him.
Harry gazes at the beautiful animal.
The dazzling light surrounding the stag grows even brighter.
As the Dementors start to move again, they are turned back by a powerful invisible shield and swoop away over Harry's head.
A tiny, silvery breath floats back into Sirius' mouth and his chest heaves.
He gives a great sigh.
The light draws back across the lake.
Harry watches the bright light fade away, leaving only the faint image of a figure standing on the far shore.
He falls back beside his godfather.
They lie next to each other, sprawled unconscious on the stony beach.
In the hospital wing.
He pats Ron's bandaged leg.
He walks to the door.
Hermione is wearing a long chain necklace.
She puts it around Harry's neck as well and spins its golden pendant.
The room is filled with people moving backwards very fast.
She replaces the necklace.
The wheels of the great clock turn.
They cross the quadrangle below and run along the cloister.
She shows him the pendant.
They hide.
Harry and Hermione creep out from their hiding place.
Harry looks around nervously as they run towards a huge stone.
Standing behind it, they look down the hill.
They watch themselves running along the path below towards Hagrid's cottage and the pumpkin patch.
Harry and Hermione hurry down the path and hide behind the pile of pumpkins.
Dumbledore, Fudge and the Executioner.
She pulls him back out of sight.
Hermione sees a pebble lying on the pumpkin in front of her.
She throws the pebble through the window.
She throws another.
Harry rubs his head.
Dumbledore knocks at the front door.
As the three men go inside, the back door opens.
Quickly, they run into the forest and observe themselves and Ron leave the cottage and hide behind the pumpkins.
Pushing aside a branch, Hermione stares at herself in the past.
The branch springs back.
Hermione and Harry watch themselves and Ron run back up the hill, then they creep back into the garden.
They peer towards the cottage.
Crows peck at Harry's feet as he steals across the garden.
Harry bows to Buckbeak, who lowers his head in return.
Harry stretches towards the post where Buckbeak is chained.
A crow pecks his hand as he undoes the chain.
Buckbeak won't move.
Harry hauls on the chain.
Hermione throws the ferret.
Buckbeak follows them into the forest.
Fudge turns.
The Executioner raises his axe and splits a pumpkin in frustration.
Harry and Hermione use the dead ferrets to lure Buckbeak deeper and deeper into the safety of the forest.
Leaving the hippogriff in a clearing, they run out of the trees until they see the Whomping Willow in the distance, flailing its branches.
Lupin points his wand and the tree falls still.
He goes down under the roots.
Snape follows Lupin.
They sit down beside each other on the grass.
As darkness falls, a swarm of bats flutters through the forest.
Buckbeak lifts his head, opens his beak and grabs a bat.
The bats fly out into the open and swoop low over Harry and Hermione's heads.
They look back towards the hippogriff.
In the distance, they see again the dog and the werewolf fighting by the willow tree.
Harry and Hermione run through the undergrowth.
Ahead of them, the werewolf flings the dog against the rock.
Harry sees himself throwing a stone and the werewolf turning and advancing on him.
Hermione howls.
They race back the way they came through the moonlit forest, stumbling over the uneven ground.
Close behind, the savage werewolf lopes easily after them.
Harry trips over a tree root.
Hermione helps him up.
Eventually, they stop to catch their breath, hiding behind the gnarled trunk of a huge tree.
The werewolf sniffs the ground, then disappears around the other side of the tree.
They look around cautiously.
They creep away nervously.
The vicious creature appears behind them.
It moves forward and rears up, about to strike.
Flapping his huge wings, Buckbeak attacks.
He claws the werewolf with his talons and it slinks away.
Hermione hides her face on Harry's shoulder.
A blast of air scatters the dry leaves at their feet.
They look up.
A swarm of Dementors is moving ominously across the sky.
Holding Hermione's hand, Harry leads the way towards the lake.
On the stony shore at the far side, he sees himself and Sirius lying unconscious beside him.
The hooded Dementors fly low over the frozen lake.
The Dementors swoop down again and again as they attack the two helpless figures.
The Dementors hover above Sirius.
Harry runs out from the trees.
Standing at the edge of the lake, he points his wand, summoning all his strength.
The wand pulsates with energy and a silver mist comes from it, forcing the Dementors back.
The light from the wand glows even more strongly, forming a bright protective shield which spreads to the other side of the lake.
The Dementors swirl angrily above his head, still trying to reach the figures on the opposite shore.
Harry concentrates even harder, and they retreat.
He sees himself staring from the other side of the lake, then falling unconscious beside Sirius.
The light from Harry's wand fades.
Buckbeak flies Harry and Hermione back to the school.
Swooping over Hogwarts Castle, the hippogriff glides down towards the dark tower where Sirius is imprisoned.
Hermione opens the barred door of his cell.
Buckbeak carries Hermione, Sirius and Harry away from the dark tower.
Beating its huge wings, the hippogriff swoops down towards the ground.
He lays his hand on Harry's heart.
Sirius climbs onto Buckbeak's back and smiles at Hermione.
Buckbeak gallops across the quadrangle, flaps his wings, and takes off into the night sky.
Silhouetted against the moon, he carries Sirius away to safety.
Pulling Harry after her, Hermione runs across the quadrangle into the school.
They hurry upstairs past the huge clock.
The great wheels turn as the clock chimes.
As they run along the corridor towards the hospital wing, Dumbledore comes out and closes the door.
They go inside.
Two figures disappear from beside Ron's bed.
A bird flies towards the Whomping Willow.
It disappears amongst the branches and feathers fall.
Harry climbs the stone staircase to Professor Lupin's room.
He goes to knock.
A writing desk closes itself.
A cabin trunk packs itself, folds up its contents neatly and closes.
The Marauder's Map.
Lupin points his wand and the parchment folds itself up and becomes blank.
He smiles at Harry, picks up his bag and walking stick, and leaves.
Harry goes to the door, as Professor Lupin limps slowly out through the classroom below.
The ghostly horsemen gallop through the Great Hall.
Harry unwraps the parcel.
A hippogriff feather.
In the quadrangle, Harry sits astride his magnificent new Firebolt.
His classmates cheer as he zooms up into the air.
Hurtling above Hogwart's, Harry shouts with exhilaration.
A boy walks through a meadow with his dog.
A huge dog leaps a fence and heads for the boy, chased by its owner.
The newlyweds dangle their feet in a bath and swig champagne from the bottle.
Trim and blonde, she takes a swig.
Also blonde, with collar length hair, he leans forward and they kiss, as the snow falls outside.
The snow is a dense blizzard.
Sun blazes down on a motor cruiser riding on the glassy calm waters of a quiet bay.
Crystal blue waters wash the shore of a coastal city.
Large houses with pools are neatly laid out amid lakes and a golf course.
A palatial hotel backs onto the beach.
The beach is crowded with sun seekers.
Speedboats throw up foaming wakes on the water.
A stone bridge crosses a wide river.
A red hatchback is among the traffic on the bridge.
The couple arrive at an office building.
She hustles him out.
Jenny's waiting by the car as he leaves the Sun-Sentinel offices.
A drives down a suburban street.
John walks out of a small neat bungalow and picks up the newspapers, one of which is the Sun-Sentinel.
The Grogans read their papers over breakfast.
It covers most of the next page.
She moves uncomfortably to the sink.
John frowns and nods.
Sebastian packs a knife.
John and Jenny drive up a tree-lined path next to a large pen of dogs.
Jenny's blindfolded with John's tie.
She pets the pups.
The Grogans' old hatchback arrives at the airport.
The pup's sitting excitedly on the passenger seat.
John watches as he paws at the upholstery.
The pup stares at him.
A police car drives past.
John pulls into the driveway.
There's a patrol car and people gathered on the street.
He gets out of the car, holding the pup.
Marley knocks over a big sack of dog foods.
Holding a dust pan and broom, John stares at the pup.
Splayed out on his belly, Marley is hoovering biscuits.
Marley looks up from his box with big sad eyes.
John switches off the garage light and goes back into the house.
Marley stares pitifully.
John brushes his teeth.
John switches off the bathroom light and goes to bed, lying with the pillow clamped to his ears.
He gets out of bed and goes to the garage.
Tousle-headed John picks up the little pup.
He leaves the garage with Marley slung over his shoulder.
John wakes up in a cloud of feathers with Marley licking his face.
The pup's ripped open a pillow and shredded clothes around the bedroom.
John heads for the car in the driveway.
He closes the garage door.
Marley fidgets anxiously in his box.
As rain lashes the house, Marley jumps up at a window.
More lightning flashes.
John arrives at the airport in the pouring rain.
Jenny comes out of the terminal sheltering under a newspaper.
The rain has stopped as they pull into the drive in the old hatchback.
Jenny's holding a stuffed alligator.
With the alligator under her left arm, she hauls open the garage door and stares at a scene of devastation.
Marley spots some pigeons and struggles away from the two bikini girls.
Up scatters the birds, hops down the beach full of sun bathers, and runs along the shoreline with John in pursuit.
Marley runs straight into the arms of a guy.
The guy's dog hurtles to his side.
Later, they're back at the house.
With one of Jenny's bras in his mouth, Marley charges again.
Burst through the screen door, out into the garden.
He bolts he back fence as the Grogans give chase, past a neighbor cooking at a barbecue.
The neighbor nods.
An older Marley drags Jenny through a hedge.
She lands in front of another dog owner.
John's glumly making notes and screwing them up again.
Jenny, with Marley, joins the other trainers.
Marley leaps up.
Marley wags his tail, then jumps up at John.
Marley tries to run off again.
She walks off with arrogant confidence.
He sprints away and the trainer reaches for a whistle.
Dog stops, turns and looks at her, then bounds happily back.
Marley knocks the trainer over and starts humping her leg, as John and Jenny rush to help.
John stares at Jenny, then shakes his head.
Marley lolls out of the window, ears flapping in the breeze as John clutches his hindquarters.
The dog's out of the window, walking on his front paws.
Jenny gets out to help as traffic streams past.
Arnie reads John's copy and shakes his head.
Arnie, glasses perched on his nose, screws up his face.
John leaves the glass-fronted office with a grin.
He walks through the open-plan newsroom, fists clenched in triumph.
He sits at his cube workstation and starts to type on his computer.
Marley spots another dog and pairs off with the table.
Paws on Jenny's shoulders, he's licking her face.
He smiles.
John, Jenny, and Marley are at the dog beach.
It's a tough one, and he grimaces.
Grinning, she pats him sympathetically on the back.
They tumble, fully clothed, onto their bed, kissing and rolling around.
John picks up a pillow and dumps it on the dog's head.
Arnie hands John back some copy.
John rummages for his phone.
Back home, John lets Marley off the leash.
He sits on the bed.
He feigns enthusiasm.
She goes back into the bathroom as John composes himself, then makes another entrance.
Jenny takes a gold necklace out of a box.
Wagging his tail playfully, Marley's got the necklace.
John trips on a chair and the chase is on around the living room.
The dog easily outmaneuvers Jenny, but John grabs him and forces open his jaws.
John sprays Marley's poop with a hose, looking for the necklace.
The doctor holds a probe to Jenny's stomach.
The doctor moves a scanner around on gel on Jenny's stomach.
A fuzzy picture appears on a screen.
The doctor frowns and removes the scanner.
She walks out, leaving the Grogans waiting anxiously in the examination room.
The doctor smiles reassuringly and places the scanner on Jenny's stomach.
Jenny nods, tight-lipped, and the doctor withdraws with a sympathetic smile of apology.
Jenny glances at her husband, who's lost for words.
The drive down a palm tree-lined road, lost in thought.
John glances at Jenny and gropes to break the silence.
Without looking at him, she settles back against her headrest and stares out of the window.
They drive on down the sunny freeway toward the city.
Back home, John opens the front door for his wife.
Marley jumps up at him, but he pushes the dog aside.
Jenny shrugs and slumps onto the sofa.
Eyes full of concern, he turns around from filling the kettle at the sink.
Jenny's sitting blankly, petting Marley, who's resting his chin on her knee.
As she starts to cry, she leans forward and hugs the big Labrador.
John walks over and sits next to her, stroking her back.
She leans against him as he rubs her arm, soothingly.
A young dark-haired woman gets out carrying a bag and a suitcase.
Marley chases Debbie around the house trying to pull off her bath towel.
He wins the game.
Debbie offers the sedatives.
He's eating the sofa.
The elderly Irish landlady leaves them to their quaintly decorated twin room.
John winces at the noise of the springs as Jenny sits on the bed.
They kiss, snuggled in the floral quilt on Jenny's single bed beneath a portrait of the Virgin Mary.
A yellow taxi arrives at the Grogans' home.
The house is a chewed mess.
Marley stands at the front door, wagging his tail.
Marley stands, head tilted back at a rain-lashed window.
The dog runs under the desk where John's working.
He climbs onto John's lap.
She comes out of the bathroom.
She holds up a pregnancy kit and he takes her in his arms, lifting her clean off the floor.
The Grogans are asleep as Marley busies himself chewing some of John's socks.
He then head butts open his food bin, knocking some books off a shelf in the process.
He noses open the plastic bin and tucks in and guzzles water from the toilet.
He then trots back into the bedroom and settles himself on his bed, enjoying a scratch before lying down.
Heavily pregnant, Jenny stirs in bed.
Marley pricks up his ears, then trots to the bedside.
She sits up suddenly, clutching her stomach.
Marley jumps on the bed and watches as Jenny hurriedly packs some clothes.
John lifts the car seat box down from the top of a cupboard.
Marley munches open the box.
He leaves Marley playing happily with a big chewy bone and hurries out of the house.
Marley's still busy with the bone as the sun comes up, and through the day, until the big dog falls asleep on the floor.
John arrives home alone.
They walk out of the back door onto their wooden decking.
John sits wearily on the steps as Marley sniffs around nearby.
Jenny's indoors with the baby in a carry seat.
Marley jumps up at the table with the baby on it.
John gets Marley to sit as Jenny lifts the baby out of the carrier.
Marley offers up a welcoming paw.
On the pavement, the Grogans' bin is surrounded by chewed empty boxes of baby equipment.
John, accompanied by Marley, comes out of the house with another bin bag as the bin men arrive.
She jumps to save Marley from the attentions of toddler Patrick.
On the beach.
John sits with Marley under a palm tree.
The big dog sits calmly and watches as a young couple kiss and cuddle on the sand.
He notices the dog watching the young couple.
He wistfully chews a toothpick as Marley lies down on the sand.
In the evening, John and Marley drive up to the house with the headlights on.
Marley's looking out of the rear passenger window.
From the driver's seat, John looks up and through a window, sees Jenny cuddling Patrick and singing to him.
She notices the car, shows Patrick, and waves to her husband, who waves back with a smile.
Marley's splayed out on the sofa, watching them.
Marley bounds out of the house with John holding his leash.
John stops and looks around the night time street.
A slim teenage girl is standing by her car in her driveway and clutching her side.
She nods tearfully.
They drive through a plush neighborhood.
He lets Patrick out of his car seat.
Marley power slides through the house and into the pool.
She's staring into the bathroom mirror.
She leads him into the bathroom.
There are four positive pregnancy tests in the sink.
John half smiles and nods hesitantly.
There are golf courses with sand bunkers and most of the houses have pools at the rear.
John walks down the front path of the house with a pool and palm trees at the front.
There's a large new car in the driveway.
Unsmilingly, he bends down and picks the newspapers up off the drive.
Holding a baby, he snaps at Marley, who's paws up on the breakfast table and taking an interest in Patrick's food.
John frowns at the implication, and the moment's captured on camera.
He arrives back home at night, driving his old blue Honda and parks up behind their new people carrier.
Gloomily, he glances up, and through a window, sees Jenny holding the baby with Marley bouncing around, playfully.
He leans back thoughtfully in the driving seat.
Jenny spots him sitting in the car and gestures to him, asking if he's actually going to come indoors.
He gets reluctantly out of the car.
He sits with a blank expression.
Jenny and Patrick sit glumly side by side at the table as John goes and sees to the baby.
Marley's next to Patrick, eyeing his food.
She's trying to wrestle a book away from him.
John shakes his head as Marley savages the book.
Later, Jenny tucks the baby into his cot, then goes over to kiss Patrick, who's snug in his little bed.
She shuts the blinds and leaves the room, easing the door closed behind her.
She walks softly on bare feet to her and John's room, where Marley is lying on the bed.
She puts a pillow next to the dog and lies down on her back.
Marley lies with his head in her lap, gently wagging his tail.
She claps her hands to her face in frustration.
She stomps to the boys' room as Marley blunders excitedly from one window to another, knocking over a lamp and pulling down a blind in the process.
She puts the baby in his high chair.
Marley knocks Patrick over.
John gets home.
Marley's chewing a toy on the sofa.
He hands a bag of dog food to Sebastian.
There's a pile of boxes.
He looks out of the window at the city as Sebastian nods awkwardly.
Back home, Jenny's dozing on the sofa when John walks in.
He sits opposite her and she eyes him, shaking her head.
He smiles quizzically at her.
Jenny's holding a newborn baby, smiling as a nurse pushes her in a wheelchair.
Colleen sleeps in a swinging seat as the rest of the family and Marley play ball in the pool.
He picks up the phone in the kitchen.
He walks back outside wearing a towel.
John runs on the beach with Marley.
They jog past a tanned young woman in a skimpy bikini.
John stops for a breather.
He looks around the beach at the other owners with their dogs on leashes.
He unclips the leash and Marley bounds down to the water.
Other owners look at John, and with a smile, the tanned bikini beauty unclips the leash on her pet boxer.
Others follow suit and a huge Rottweiler charges into the surf.
John grins as the dogs play together in the shallows and more join the fun.
An owner throws a Frisbee for his border collie.
John grins as the dogs splash around.
Bikini girl looks concerned.
Marley is circling in the shallows, preparing to poop.
Other owners watch in horror.
The big Rottweiler owner closes his eyes in shocked disbelief as John lunges for Marley.
The big man summons the Rottweiler and a police noses onto the beach.
The officers, in shorts and ball caps, get out of the vehicle.
At night, John arrives home in the Volvo with Marley.
Marley and John enter the darkened house.
Grinning with embarrassed delight, John scoops up Connor as his two boys run forward to greet him.
Jenny comes forward, holding Colleen and kisses him and brings in a huge square cake covered in candles.
Marley immediately puts his paws on the table and starts eating the cake.
The pool is covered with floating flower candles.
John feeds Marley cake.
She takes off her dress and grins, naked, in front of him.
He grins as she takes a running jump into the pool.
He unbuttons his shirt.
He cannonballs in, surfaces and swims towards her.
As they cuddle naked, Marley swims past.
John's putting items from his desk into a box.
He hefts the box under his arm and walks towards Arnie, who's standing outside his office.
He pats Arnie on the shoulder and the older man leans forward and gives him a half hug.
John walks away, grinning.
Their people carrier drives through green fields and lush woodland.
Marley is leaning out of the window as the Grogans drive down a country road.
Marley bounds up the steps to the large stone-built house and headbutts a stone bird table.
He knocked the table off the porch.
John's at his desk in the cavernous offices of the Philadelphia Inquirer daily news.
John joins the kids and Marley at the bedroom window.
Huge garden is covered in snow.
They all pile outside wrapped up for the cold.
A snowball fight starts, then Jenny and John pull the children on a sledge while Marley trots alongside.
Little Colleen falls off.
Marley attacks their snowman.
John looks at his wife, then they smile and hug.
John walks upstairs and switches off the lights.
He looks in on sleeping Colleen, then checks on the boys in their bunks.
Marley's lying next to Connor.
Marley watches him leave and settles back down next to the sleeping lad.
He leaves the editor's glass-fronted office.
The children are playing ball in the garden with Jenny when John arrives home.
The kids, Jenny and Marley tackle him to the ground.
John, the boys and Marley head back to the house.
Marley's having difficulty getting up the steps.
Marley's asleep in the dining room.
The windy dog gets up and trots out.
John puts on a coat and goes back outside.
They use torches to search the rainy night.
Jenny switches the light on in the barn.
The children are gathered together at a window.
She picks up Colleen with a reassuring smile.
Patrick glumly follows his mother as John continues to search outside.
He walks down the drive towards the post box by the roadside.
He flashes the torch around and spots Marley lying by a tree.
The dog whines as John touches his belly.
A white-coated vet washes her hands.
Close to tears, John leaves the surgery.
He steps out onto the street, shrugging on his jacket and walks, shoulders slumped, towards the car.
He puts the key in the door and puts his hands on his hips and sighs.
Later, he arrives home.
She looks at the scrapbook and grins.
Resting his cheek on his right hand, John doesn't look at her and examines his other hand, distractedly.
Jenny puts an arm around him.
He stares at the scrapbook of pasted-in columns.
Morning sun shines on the big stone house.
John's asleep, slumped over the scrapbook.
He turns to Jenny and smiles.
She slumps against a door frame in relief.
Marley bounds across the large lawn and sits down by the road.
As the school bus approaches, Marley trots up to the bus as Patrick and Connor get off.
Marley joins in the race.
John and Billy walk through town past the tall clock tower of City Hall.
Sebastian and John grin broadly at one another.
John looks back as they part.
Sebastian approaches two women.
John drops his bag on a chair by the front door near to a baby grand piano.
There's a note on the dining room table.
Marley's knocked over the dustbin in the kitchen and is having a feast.
He picks up the bin and they go for a walk through a sunny meadow bordered by trees with golden autumnal leaves.
Marley trots along beside John, who has his hands thrust in his pockets.
They sit down together on the path.
John strokes Marley and studies his old friend.
The dog turns and looks at him.
They sit, side by side, in the golden evening sun, looking out over the lush valley.
Lights burn in the house at night.
He's lying by the fire.
He lies down next to Marley.
Jenny fetches a blanket for the pair.
Marley's lying under a tree.
He gets out of the car and runs indoors.
Connor gives him a hug.
Jenny fights back tears.
John takes the stuffed lamb and Patrick tearfully hugs Marley.
The boy looks imploringly at his parents.
Jenny frowns in sympathy at her son's pain, and John tries a reassuring smile.
He carries Marley out to the car and gently lays the old dog down in the boot.
John goes to get behind the wheel as Jenny tearfully strokes her dying pet.
She closes the door and presses her hand to the glass as John drives away down the winding drive through trees adorned with golden brown autumn leaves.
At the surgery, John sits and waits with his hands clasped together.
At home, Patrick's leafing through John's old columns.
Jenny walks in and ruffles his blonde hair.
Jenny controls her own emotions as John gives into tears.
He goes back into the surgery where Marley is lying on the table.
He runs his hand down Marley's beige coat.
He strokes the dog's tail, which isn't wagging now.
He holds a rear paw and rubs Marley's shoulder, then leans forward and hugs his friend, burying his face in Marley's neck.
He gently strokes Marley's head.
Jenny waits tearfully at home.
The vet puts a hypodermic into the IV line going into Marley's leg.
Patrick slots a videotape into a player.
Jenny waves to the camera holding baby Patrick in a cowboy outfit.
Marley stands expectantly next to the high chair.
Jenny slips him a tidbit.
Patrick stares at the TV.
At the surgery, the vet pushes down the plunger on the needle.
John watches Marley and Jenny sits sadly, staring into space.
On the video, John takes off Patrick's nappy, which Marley then grabs.
Patrick grins, watching as his father tries to wrestle the nappy off the dog.
Jenny sits sadly in the window seat.
Patrick concentrates on the old video footage of his mother laughing and a close up of Marley, staring puzzled into the camera.
The vet puts a stethoscope to Marley's chest and listens.
John continues to stroke Marley's head as the vet takes off the stethoscope and turns away.
The Grogans walk across their leaf-strewn lawn, John carrying Colleen on his shoulders.
He lifts down the little girl as they reach a small grave by a tree.
She puts the picture in the grave.
He puts his paper in with Colleen's.
She takes off her necklace and kneels down next to the grave.
She drops the necklace in with Marley.
John squats down, looking at Marley's body wrapped in his favorite blanket.
He puts a last stone on a pile on top of the filled-in grave, looks round at the house, then stands up and walks away from Marley's resting place.
He looks towards the house and through a window, sees Marley, dancing with Jenny, licking her face.
He looks again and sees his family, gathered together, sipping hot drinks.
The trees in the garden are covered with brown and gold autumn leaves.
John heads back to the house.
A montage of news images.
A pair of large military-style trucks are driven in tandem along a dirt road.
The first has a single soldier standing in the back, and the second a whole troop.
The trucks pull up.
Brandishing rifles, the troops order a group of terrified and cowering peasants off the truck and onto the road.
The troops are dressed in khaki fatigues and wear wide- brimmed hats with a gold-colored Burmese military emblem fixed to the front.
The troops pass cash among themselves.
An officer in dark glasses sits in one of the trucks, coolly smoking a cigarette.
A soldier walks in a nearby paddy field and tosses a primed grenade.
The villagers cower.
The soldier primes and tosses two more grenades.
They splash harmlessly on sodden ground.
The soldier stops about yards from the truck.
The peasants are pushed at gunpoint to the edge of the field.
They begin to half-run, half-stumble across the paddy field towards the solitary soldier.
The troops watch impassively.
The commander pulls on his cigarette.
One of the peasants is blown to pieces.
The peasants stand still.
The commander nods to a soldier.
At the soldier's command, the troops open fire and the peasants are shot down.
Low clouds hover above mountains.
A verdant valley edged with ferns.
A small stream runs through it.
Captions in military white type.
A mustachioed local man in a baseball cap and a striped T- shirt pokes undergrowth with a stick.
A second man, wearing a bandana and a red shirt does likewise.
A third man is John Rambo.
Dark-haired, heavy-set, muscular and sullen faced, he wears a khaki colored smock and a red paisley bandanna.
Rambo pushes his stick into the greenery.
A cobra rears in the grass.
The stick has a hook on the end.
The men are snake-wranglers.
Rambo gestures to his friends and they surround the cobra, which lunges at them in turn.
With his hand, Rambo scoops up the snake by its neck, and secures it in a sack.
The trio return to a small boat, which is moored on a sandbank where the stream widens into a river.
They slosh though shallow water, and Rambo leads the men up the boat's gangplank.
The boat's on a lake, silhouetted against the sun.
Rambo stands on the prow of the boat with a bow and arrow.
His arrow has a line attached.
He draws the bow-string.
He fires into the water and pulls out a large fish, which has been skewered by his arrow.
On a river, the boat passes a small canoe, in which there are two men and a small boy.
One of Rambo's friends hands a fish to the small boy.
The men in the boat wear burnt orange robes and have shaved heads.
The boat's motor churns up plumes of white foam on the river.
Rambo is at the tiller, steering.
The boat enters more populated territories.
There are wooden homes on the riverside and harbors made of timber.
A building on the riverside features a sign, comprising a large painting of a cobra, on the wall.
There is also a Red Cross sign.
The boat pulls in at a harbor on which there are two men.
They stop what they're doing and turn their attention to the boat.
One man wears a white t-shirt and a black hat.
The other, a blue shirt and a bandanna.
The boat slows to a halt.
Rambo and his men disembark from the boat.
Rambo's face is doleful and weary.
The sun casts an orange glow on the river water.
Surrounded by onlookers, a young snake-charmer crouches alone in an open area facing two cobras.
One of the cobras rears and strikes at the dark-haired wrangler.
A snake merchant approaches Rambo.
To Rambo's men.
The seller gives Rambo cash.
Rambo walks away in disgust and heads for the perimeter of the arena.
He empties the bag containing the cobra into a wooden crate.
A group of Westerners arrive, led by Michael, who has thinning hair, and a blonde girl, Sarah.
Michael greets and talks to the merchant, who points to Rambo.
Rambo maneuvers a cobra into the crate and slams down the lid.
In the arena, the wrangler teases a cobra.
Rambo stands near wire and wood snake cages as Michael and his party approach.
Rambo throws a rat into one of the cages.
Rambo scratches his face idly.
Michael seems temporarily lost for words.
Rambo leaves.
Michael turns to his party.
Sarah is mid 20s, pretty with blonde, scraggly hair and a high forehead.
She follows Rambo out.
He's washing his face and hair in a water barrel.
Rambo picks up a towel and wipes his face.
He hangs the towel on a hook.
He walks up to her and fixes her with a firm stare.
Rambo walks away from her.
He toils alone in a darkened workshop.
The only light comes from sunlight outside and the flames of the fire.
He uses a hammer to forge a piece of broken steel on an anvil.
The end of it is orange and white with heat.
He wipes an arm across his sweaty brow.
His blows on the steel become more intense.
In darkness, save for the glow of headlights on jeeps and beams from hand torches, the army drag people from their homes and march them away at gunpoint, under the supervision of the cigarette -smoking commander.
The villagers have their hands behind their heads.
They find armed men.
The soldiers open fire on them.
Women cry and hide their eyes.
Soldiers break into homes and drag out youths.
The officer watches coolly.
A soldier shoots a man dead.
The commander addresses the village.
Terrified women cover their mouths.
In Rambo's fort, sparks fly as he grinds round blades on a spinning wheel.
Veins stand out on his muscular arms.
He stops grinding, drops the blade and runs a hand through his hair.
A rusty metal fan on a rod lies on a bench nearby.
He removes a nut from the rod and discards the fan.
He replaces it with his creation, a new fan.
He adds a nut to the thread at the end of the rod and reaches onto a bench.
He picks up a spanner and tightens the nut.
He deftly lifts the assembly off the bench and puts it down.
He leaves the workshop and walks out into the night air, where it's raining heavily.
His boat is moored below at the water's edge.
He looks down at it.
A solitary figure sits on the boat.
Rambo wipes rain away from his face.
He walks down a wooden walkway to the boat.
Sarah is sitting under the boat's canopy.
She stands.
She's soaking wet.
He stares blankly at her.
Sarah looks disappointed.
She emerges from the canopy of the boat and walks past him, climbing onto the harbor.
She begins to walk the length of the harbor towards the walkway.
She pauses and brushes rain from her head.
Rambo steps onto the harbor.
She turns and stares at him before walking back towards him with an imploring look.
She brushes rain from her hair once more.
Rambo stares at her.
His face betrays no emotion.
She turns away from him with a faint smile and walks back along the harbor.
She wears a sodden gray hoodie and jeans.
She climbs the wooden walkway.
Rambo rubs his chin and runs a hair through his hair, then walks along the harbor.
In the morning light, on Rambo's boat as it motors along the river, Michael addresses his party.
Rambo is at the tiller.
Michael glances at Rambo, who affords him the merest flicker in return.
Rambo stoically leans on the tiller with both hands.
Sarah approaches him.
She smiles and turns away from him.
Dusk.
The boat motors around a headland.
A small white glimmer appears on the river and a cone- shaped reflection in the water.
It's thrown by the boat, which has headlamps mounted on its canopy.
Michael and his volunteers doze in the boat.
Sarah is nestled against Michael's chest.
Rambo's attention is caught.
There is light on the riverbank.
Michael's party stirs.
Lights hang from the soffit of a dock house on the distant riverside.
Michael, Sarah and the party crouch low in the boat as it nears the building.
A group of the pirates sit on a veranda overlooking the river.
The volunteers wear worried frowns.
The boat's passage past the pirates appears to go unnoticed in the dark.
Michael glances worriedly at Rambo.
Rambo's gaze does not waver from the pirates as the boat leaves the pirate dock behind.
The volunteers move up the boat en masse towards Rambo.
Michael steps up to him.
A floodlight from a motorboat.
A warning shot and the boat bears down on them.
The pirates are armed with a machine gun on a tripod.
Sarah pulls on a white floppy hat.
Rambo stands with his arms raised in surrender.
Pirate motorboat pulls alongside them.
Pirates in vests and bandannas cast ropes with grappling hooks tied to the ends over to Rambo's boat.
The hooks catch and lock.
A floodlight plays on Rambo's face.
A pirate brandishes a pistol.
Rambo throws a switch and the lights go on.
He turns the gun on Sarah.
The pirate leader turns his gun back on Rambo.
Rambo sees a pistol tucked into the second pirate's waistband.
He pulls a gun from his pocket and shoots them.
The pirates drop to the deck of their boat in slow motion.
One of them is only wounded.
He reaches for his gun.
Rambo stands on his hand and aims at him.
Rambo shoots him in the head and turfs the corpse overboard.
He grabs Michael by the throat.
He releases Michael and throws a grappling hook over the side.
He and Sarah grab the tiller.
She stares at him desperately.
She places her slim hand on his beefy forearm.
Her eyes are wide and brimming with tears.
Michael looks away, disgustedly.
She rejoins the group.
They appear very subdued.
She sits next to Michael, who holds her in his arms.
With a sullen glare, Rambo fires up the boat's motor and adjusts the tiller.
The boat plows through the river water.
The floodlights of the now derelict pirate boat touches their departing stand , as the boat motors into the inky blackness.
A bright sunny day.
The boat is steered towards a riverbank.
There is a simple harbor beneath a large, spreading tree which overhangs the water.
The volunteers stand up in the boat, collect their belongings and begin to disembark.
Local peasants act as porters nearby.
Rambo watches the volunteers leave.
The last of them are Michael and Sarah.
Michael rounds on Rambo.
Michael gets off the boat and walks away up a wooden gangplank.
Sarah lingers and turns to Rambo.
Her blonde hair is tied back in a bunch.
On the riverside, Michael pauses and watches them.
He carries a small bundle.
Rambo wears a concerned frown.
Sarah stares at him sadly.
She smiles faintly and places a small crucifix on a necklace into his enormous hand.
His fingers close over the gift.
She stares at him, then turns away.
She gets off the boat.
On the bank, Michael hoists a bulky black rucksack onto his shoulders.
Sarah walks up the gangplank.
She joins Michael.
The party march away with the peasant porters.
Michael's party march inland over the head of a waterfall.
Two of the bearers carry a pole between them, from which a large carton hangs.
Rambo's boat wends its way back down the river.
Michael's party crosses a static body of water bordered by rocks and boulders.
A man at the front of the party uses a camcorder.
Rambo's boat rounds a headland and comes upon the pirates' motorboat, floating near a bank.
Rambo stares warily at it as they past.
A single corpse lies on the deck near the abandoned machine gun.
Rambo grips the tiller firmly and guides his boat towards the pirate boat.
The volunteers and bearers traipse over the brow of a hill.
In the valley below is a settlement overlooking a paddy field.
Sarah looks about.
Rambo pilots the pirate boat further up the river.
His own follows behind it, piloted by one of his men.
On the pirate boat, one of the pirate corpses has turned a mottled purple.
The boat moves into a riverbank.
Rambo locks off the motor and brings the pirate boat to a halt.
He grabs petrol cans and rope and makes his way through the pirate corpses.
The volunteers approach the village.
They're greeted by small children and adults alike.
The village huts are built in the local style in wood with high foundations.
Rambo flips the top of one of the cans, holds it above his head and drenches the machine gun and pirate corpses with petrol.
The villagers make Michael's party welcome.
Rambo opens up another can and drowns the deck in more petrol.
The petrol washes pools of blood over the side of the boat.
He throws an empty can into the hold of the boat.
He flips open and lights a cigarette lighter.
From his own boat, he tosses the lighter into the pirate boat, which bursts into flame.
Stalks of rice plants stand upright in a paddy field below the village.
Outside a hut, Sarah hands a book to a puzzled child.
One of the volunteers gives an oral examination to a woman.
An old man plays a stringed instrument.
Volunteer James gives a sermon under a canopy with the aid of a translator.
The man with the camcorder records the event.
Another volunteer gives medical care.
Sarah passes by him and walks up wooden steps into a hut.
Young people sit in a waiting area, some with missing limbs.
Sarah finds Michael with another patient who lies on the floor of the hut.
Sarah hands Michael a roll of bandage.
He binds a stump where his shin should be.
Michael's patient writhes in pain.
Michael gives him a comforting pat.
Sarah looks down at them, then at the waiting patients.
A very small boy has only one leg.
The village is attacked with rocket fire.
A rocket is primed.
Sarah hands a child to its mother.
The rockets are fired by the army.
A man is blown to pieces.
Michael roams with a child in his arms.
Rockets hit the paddy field.
A wooden hut is destroyed.
Sarah cowers under a hut.
The army enter the village with weapons blazing.
A volunteer carrying a child in each arm is cut down.
The children are dragged from him.
One is shot and the other bayoneted in the stomach while his face is held down by an army boot.
A woman is shot, another abused and a third dragged away by her hair.
In slow motion, a volunteer in a baseball cap tries to outrun the rocket fire.
A hit hurls in through the air, severing his legs below the knee.
A man kneels before a pair of soldiers with weapons.
Soldiers hack off villagers' limbs.
A soldier with a flamethrower sends a plume of flame into a building.
Villagers with clothing on fire run from it and roll in the dust.
A small child is torn from its mother and tossed into the burning building.
Sarah runs.
Michael is rifled-butted.
The villagers run across the paddy field.
The truck with a machine gun on a tripod arrives.
The villagers are massacred in mid-flight.
Sarah is accompanied by a mother and a child who run with her.
The mother is shot in the back and drops to the ground.
From the truck, the cool commander watches the carnage while his subordinate blazes away.
Partially caught by a blast, Sarah tumbles into the water of the field.
The commander pulls on his cigarette.
More villagers run towards the truck.
Their bodies are torn apart by bullets.
Gunfire picks off survivors.
Sarah looks up just as two of the soldiers grab her by the arms.
She tries to fight them off but they haul her to her feet.
They drag her away by the scruff of her neck.
In the truck, the soldier in charge of the machine gun pivots to and fro in search of victims.
Corpses litter the remains of the village.
Huts and trees are on fire.
The commander watches, his eyes hidden behind his sunglasses.
Green forests.
A misty mountain towers over a lake.
Rambo's boat sits serenely at its home harbor.
Rambo sits on the deck with his elbows resting on his knees, toying with the crucifix Sarah gave him in his sinewy hands.
He looks up thoughtfully, then stands.
Sheets of lighting bombard dark mountaintops.
A montage of flashback images of Rambo in combat.
Rambo lies in a hammock.
He climbs out.
In the rain-soaked darkness, a figurine silhouette holds an umbrella and stands in the half-light.
The figure lowers the brolly and walks towards him.
Rambo switches on a light.
Marshall is a middle-aged man with neat gray hair.
He wears a dark overcoat over a collarless pale blue shirt.
Rambo start thinking about something and then walks towards him.
Rambo beats a piece of hot steel.
He shoves the metal into burning coals.
He douses the white hot metal in a water
The cooling metal is the shape of a machete.
A rainy morning.
The singer is Reese, one of a motley collection of mercenaries in Rambo's boat, including bearded Diaz and En-Joo, handsome stubbly School Boy and bald Lewis.
Rambo sits at the tiller, watching them.
Lewis stands at the prow of the boat, looking out at the river.
Rambo stares at Lewis blankly.
Lewis stares at Rambo again.
Rambo looks vacantly ahead.
With an angry glare at Rambo, Lewis returns to the prow of the boat and continues his belligerent surveillance.
Rambo gazes out across the water surface.
A flock of birds takes off en masse.
A watchtower at a military camp surrounded by razor wire.
Troops eat in a large mess tent.
One idly throws leftovers over his shoulder into a cage of female prisoners outside.
Three soldiers troop out of the mess hut.
The Burmese flag is raised on a pole.
Beneath it are two ranks of downcast male prisoners, now army draftees.
A drill instructor thumps one in the stomach.
The camp huts are timber with above-ground supports as foundations.
Sarah lies bound beneath one.
The foundation is divided into two sections.
In the section next to Sarah, two fat pigs fight over food.
Through the slat, she watches a soldier walk away from the hut.
The commander and the subordinate have an overview of a larger compound, in which the pigs roam freely.
Opposite the soldier's vantage point and above the piggery is a cage in which the downcast male survivors of Michael's party kneel.
Their hands are tied behind them.
Their faces are muddy.
One lifts his head and catches the commander's eye.
The volunteer looks down.
On Rambo's boat.
Lewis stands in the stern with his back to Rambo.
He points to himself.
He looks at Rambo, who ignores him.
Rambo fixes him a glare but remains expressionless.
Rambo turns away and spits into the river before staring ahead again.
Lewis walks away in disgust.
Handsome and rugged School Boy glances up the boat at Rambo.
The military camp at night.
A truck sits at the end of two rows of huts.
In the pigsty cell, Sarah looks up through the floorboards into the hut.
The commander appears.
He has a short, neat mustache.
He takes a pull on one of his ever-present cigarettes and blows smoke.
He smirks and walks away.
Sarah rests her head against the wall of her prison.
On the river, the boat rounds a promontory.
Its headlamps are off.
Lewis leans pensively on the boat's prow.
He turns to look at the stern.
Rambo stares back at him.
Lewis turns away.
The boat pulls alongside the harbor where Michael's party were dropped.
The mercenaries disembark laden with various weapons and bandoleers, including automatic rifles with telescopic sights.
Two rebels approach along the path leading to the gangplank.
Rambo walks up the gangplank.
The party of mercenaries, BN the rebel and the boy tracker set off into the forest.
Rambo solemnly watches them go.
He turns away and walks back to the boat.
BN and the boy lead the mercenaries through forest undergrowth.
School Boy's rifle is particularly bulky.
They cross a small stream.
En-Joo wears a khaki hat.
Diaz has a shirt covering his hair.
Resting against a tree and partially covered in vines is a dull gray object, bullet shaped but with fins at one end.
Lewis regards it warily.
The rest of the mercenaries pay the bomb little attention.
They move on.
They pass a cave mouth on a craggy mountainside.
Inside, there's a small collection of nervous-looking locals, comprising women, children and old men.
The mercenaries move on.
En-Joo, Reese and Diaz each give the locals a backward glance.
The village paddy field.
The water is clear.
But there is a pale brown mud beneath it.
Sticks of plant poke into the air.
Trees are reflected in the water's surface.
A decomposing human corpse lies partially submerged in the water.
A dead buffalo lies beyond it.
BN and the mercenaries overlook the field.
More corpses lie at the edge of the field.
Reese holds his shirt against his nose.
A woman's severed head hangs from a post.
Lewis turns to look.
There are two bodies hanging from bare rafters in the remains of a hut.
The boy nods and leaves.
The mercenaries make a wary record of the ruined village.
More corpses of people and animals litter the dry muddy ground.
A man has his head partially blown away.
A child skeleton.
En-Joo looks moody.
En-Joo throws away a cigarette.
BN leads them away, but he's suddenly alerted.
BN and the mercenaries take cover behind charred sticks of timber framework.
They watch as a military lorry with a covered tail pulls into view and drives along the edge of the paddy field.
It stops.
Soldiers push a group of five male peasants off the tailboard and into the dirt at gunpoint.
School Boy looks across at Diaz.
The soldiers toss primed grenades into the paddy field.
The peasants are lined up at the edge of the paddy field.
Diaz frowns and glances at the hanging severed head.
One of the troops points his rifle into the air.
The peasants take the gunfire as the signal to begin a race across the paddy field.
They stumble desperately through the water.
BN watches horrified, while the mercenaries each wear grim expressions.
In slow motion, the peasants' feet slosh through the water.
They all make it successfully to the other side of the field and slump on the bank.
A soldier shouts angrily and kicks one of the peasants in the head.
One of the soldiers raises his rifle.
Bullets hit the ground near the peasants.
The troops angrily gesture to the frightened men to cross the field again.
A soldier raises his rifle.
He gets an arrow in the back.
Rambo runs through the trees, letting fly with arrows from his bow.
School Boy looks astonished.
A soldier gets an arrow in the back as he tries to escape and then one in the head.
Another soldier catches one in the leg and eye.
He falls into the paddy field onto a grenade.
The peasants scramble towards BN and the mercenaries.
Rambo joins them and speaks to BN.
Lewis turns his back on Rambo.
Rambo draws an arrow on Lewis and aims it at the bald man's right eye.
The other mercenaries cover Rambo with their weapons and glance at each other worriedly.
Rambo lowers the bow and arrow from Lewis' face.
Lewis looks relieved.
They move.
Rain pelts down on the military camp at night.
The troop sits smoking and drinking beer in the mess hut, watching women perform an exotic dance routine on a stage.
Sarah languishes in the pig sty.
Her hair is untidy.
Her clothes dirty.
There are dark bags under her eyes.
She looks up through gaps in the floorboards.
The commander walks calmly back and forth.
The mercenaries have commandeered the solders' truck and are being driven along a dirt track towards the camp.
Lewis holds a torch.
By its red glow, the mercenaries check their watches en masse.
Lewis pulls a hood over his head.
The team, including Rambo, make ready.
His head covered by a black hat, School Boy stealthily climbs the wooden steps of the camp watch tower.
He pulls out a vicious-looking knife with a serrated blade from a sheath.
A guard in a rain poncho smokes a cigarette and sees the headlamps of the truck in the distance.
He walks into the rain-soaked road as the truck approaches the camp.
BN is at the wheel, dressed as a soldier.
School Boy steals onto the watch tower platform where a lookout sits in a chair, oblivious to his presence.
On the tower, School Boy clamps a hand over the guard's mouth and plunges the serrated blade into the soldier.
He rests his rifle on the timbers of the watch tower.
In the truck, Rambo's eye-line and bandana are reflected in BN's driving mirror.
BN wears a frown of concentration as the camp nears the camp guard post.
The guard waves them through, a cigarette ember glowing between his fingers.
On the tower, School Boy checks his watch, nine minutes to two.
In the still-moving truck, Rambo signals to Reese.
Reese jumps off the truck, rolls and hides.
En-Joo jumps off, rounds the corner of a hut with his weapon raised and takes cover.
Rambo clamps Lewis on the shoulder and the hooded man jumps off, taking cover between the two huts.
The troops enjoy the exotic dance show.
Diaz leaps from the truck and rolls uncomfortably.
As the truck passes over a low wooden bridge above a stream, Rambo jumps off and rolls in the mud and takes position at the side of a hut.
He looks through the wooden slats at the hut wall.
A figure is inscribing a tattoo on anther's back with black ink.
Rambo hurries away.
At the dance show, some of the watching soldiers rock drunkenly back and forth in time with the music.
BN brings the truck to a halt and gets out of the cab.
He pauses near the truck's bonnet.
The dancing women are peasants.
Their eyes are dull and uninterested.
En-Joo nears a hut and peers inside.
Someone sits in front of a nude female, his hands on her waist.
En-Joo moves on.
Reese approaches a hut and checks inside in the same way.
Rambo checks the luminous dial of his analog watch, seven minutes to two.
A man hangs crucified on a timber frame.
Above him, the caged volunteers are blindfolded.
One of the prisoners hears his approach.
Pigs are tearing flesh from the crucified man's leg.
Rambo draws his homemade machete and runs up to the cage.
Climbing the wooden ladder leading to it, he cuts the rope securing a door and pulls it open.
Michael is nearest the door.
Rambo removes the blindfold.
Rambo leaves, passing the footless corpse of the crucified man.
At the dance show, one of the soldiers pulls on a cigarette, stands and throws the butt at the dancing girls.
A woman raises an arm to protect herself.
The soldier raises his arms in triumph.
Another soldier throws liquid at them.
The women cower.
Diaz creeps between two huts and is surprised by Rambo, who's waiting there.
Rambo beckons to him.
At the dance, a soldier with a can of booze climbs onto the stage with a grin on his face.
He slaps one of the girls on the rump.
She lurches forward.
The soldiers jump and wave their arms ecstatically.
Lewis runs past a hut with his weapon primed.
Two guards in ponchos walk over the wooden bridge.
Rambo takes cover in the timbers beneath it.
The soldier on stage continues to humiliate a terrified dancing woman by pouring his can of drink over her head.
Rambo wades up the stream.
A soldier emerges from a hut onto a veranda.
He angles a lamp above his head to illuminate them.
He carries a spirit-type bottle of golden-brown booze in his hand.
He swigs from the bottle and goes inside.
He emerges once more.
He plants his hands on his head and heads away across the sodden compound.
BN sneaks up to the cage, breaks open a chain on the door and motions the women to follow him quietly.
Rambo continues upstream.
It rises to meet the ground of the camp and is bordered by bushes.
Yards from its end, Rambo spots a Burmese soldier pushing a young boy in front of him.
Rambo ducks out of sight as they go by.
The dance event descends into chaos.
The soldier on stage slams one of the women to the stage floor.
He picks her up and throws her over the arms of his fellows below.
They begin to tear at her clothes.
One trooper fights the others off and leads the girl away, keeping his comrades at arms' length.
The boy is pushed into another hut, where the commander is sitting.
The door of the hut remains open.
The commander walks up to the boy and inspects him.
The commander wears a tunic decorated with ribbons.
It is open and he wears a white vest and dog tags underneath.
The commander strokes the boy's head.
Rambo looks away in disgust.
The door closes.
Rambo emerges from hiding.
He checks his watch, three minutes to two.
Diaz hops over a timber fence and runs up the ladders to the volunteers cage.
The soldier with the dancing girl drags her towards his hut.
She struggles.
He slaps her and she falls to the ground.
He gestures to the hut and crawls underneath it.
Unseen by the soldier, En-Joo clamps a hand over her mouth and holds a finger to his lips.
The soldier looks underneath the hut for the girl.
En-Joo dives towards him, plunging a knife into his throat then stabbing repeatedly.
He drags the soldier's body out of sight.
Rambo runs out to a hut and dives underneath it.
He sees Sarah lying prone in the pig sty.
He throws open a wooden bolt, opens a gate and crawls inside.
He looks out through the timbers and sees the soldier with the bottle of spirits returning.
Sarah is asleep or unconscious.
Rambo rushes over to the partition between them, pushing pigs out of the way.
En-Joo checks his watch, seconds to On the watch tower, School Boy has a soldier in the site of his weapon.
His watch shows 2 AM.
He fires.
School Boy starts by picking off the guard below and the guards in two adjacent watch towers.
En-Joo and the girl exchange glances and move.
The boozy soldier has gotten to Sarah first.
The hidden Rambo watches as she's dragged away.
He waits a few seconds then follows them.
BN's party joins En-Joo and the girls in a dark clearing beyond the camp gate.
The soldier emerges from between two huts and drags Sarah along by her hair, her arms tightly bound behind her back.
Unseen, Rambo runs behind them.
At the dance, one of the women is being held down and throttled by a soldier.
Another trooper runs through the throng, brandishing a flare billowing red smoke.
Lewis joins the other mercenaries.
Louis throws Michael to the ground and pulls a knife on him.
BN leads them away.
School Boys shoots Lewis a murderous look.
At the dance, the smoke from the flare is everywhere.
One of the women's' dresses is torn away, leaving her topless.
Rambo follows Sarah and the soldier.
The soldier drags her into his hut and throws her to the floor.
The door swings closed behind them.
At the dance, a struggling women has her face slapped by one of the drunken crowd.
At the same time, Sarah suffers the same abuse at the hands of a soldier.
He bears down on her and reaching for his belt buckle.
Rambo takes the officer from behind, grabbing a clump of the man's hair in his right hand and clutching the throat with his left.
The officer's face becomes a rictus grimace as Rambo's fingers dig deep into the cartilage and bone at the man's neck.
Rambo rips out his throat and throws him to the floor.
Sarah looks up.
Soldiers fight over women at the dance.
Rambo leads Sarah from the officer's hut and across the compound.
The dance hut is engulfed in red smoke.
Boozy soldiers stagger from it, grinning.
One taps another on the shoulders.
Rambo leads Sarah under the wooden bridge over the stream.
They hide there briefly, as drunken troopers stagger over it.
From below, Sarah and Rambo watch their solid army boots go by.
A woman is dragged from the smoky dance hut.
Rambo leads Sarah up the stream.
The party is all over.
The last of the soldiers stagger away from the dance hut.
Sarah and Rambo climb up the banks of the stream and into the road.
She falls in the mud.
They're spotted by patrolling guards.
They raise their rifles and Rambo leaps onto Sarah to shield her.
School Boy shoots one of them.
School Boy aims again.
The second guard's head explodes and he flies through a nearby fence to join his fallen comrade.
Rambo and Sarah leave.
School Boy closes a night-vision sight on his weapon.
The rain has stopped.
The moon appears from behind a bank of cloud.
The commander emerges from his hut in his vest, pushing the small boy before him.
He stands on his veranda, watching the boy trudge away across the compound before turning and heading back inside.
He closes the hut door behind him.
Rambo, Sarah and School Boy run through the forest.
They pause breathlessly at a tree trunk.
Rambo turns to School Boy.
They exchange stares.
They move away.
A golden sun peaks over the tops of trees.
The camp is a hive of activity.
Tracker dogs sniff around clothing for scents.
They're lifted into the backs of trucks.
The commander strides angrily out of his hut.
He exchanges words with a junior before stalking across the compound to the soldier's hut.
He goes inside and stares wide-eyed in horror at the sight of the soldier's corpse on the hut floor.
Blood, either wet or caked about the man's dead neck or pooling on the floor.
The commander takes a few short breaths and leaves again.
Rambo, Sarah and School Boy run past a wall of rock.
The commander stands in the passenger seat of the truck with a mounted machine-gun.
He leads a small convoy out of the camp.
His truck is followed by a pair of open-topped lorries packed with troopers.
Lewis leads his party of mercenaries and rescued peasants through the forest.
Some way behind him are Rambo, Sarah and School Boy.
On a dirt road, one of the lorries pulls up and a bunch of troopers dismount with weapons primed.
They head into the forest.
BN now leads the escapees as they mount a rise.
Lewis treads on a hidden land mine.
Diaz clamps a hand over his mouth.
More troops dismount from the back of the lorry.
The lorry moves on.
Louis is wide-eyed in shock.
Diaz whispers to him.
Reese looks about.
Michael cuts at the bloody wound.
Louis bites on a cloth.
Soldiers get off a lorry with the tracker dogs.
The dogs are after the scent and they lead their handlers in a rapid pursuit, followed by a large body of their colleages
Rambo, Sarah and School Boy run up a rocky slope.
She stumbles in the dirt.
Rambo runs back to her and helps her up.
School Boy moves up front.
Michael and the mercenaries carry Lewis on a hastily- constructed stretcher.
The dogs lead their handlers.
On the rocky path, School Boy stops to listen in a craggy crevice.
Rambo starts to tear a strip from Sarah's shirt.
He ties the strip around his boot.
School Boy tosses Rambo an explosive.
Lewis' party look around in horror.
The commander's truck stops.
Via a walkie-talkie, the commander screams orders at an armed patrol boat on the river.
The grey patrol boat flies the Burmese flag.
The captain signals to his helmsman, who fires up the engine.
A handler offers a tracker dog a sniff of clothing.
Rambo runs through the undergrowth with a strip of Sarah's clothing on his boot.
The troops seem to be gaining on him.
Rambo runs through a carpet of dry brown leaves.
A lorry pulls into a clearing and more troops dismount.
Rambo heads through the forest at full tilt.
Rambo skids to a halt beside a gnarled tree.
He takes the claymore explosive and launches it in the limbs of the roots.
He glances in the direction of his pursuers.
He rips the clothing strip from his boot.
He pulls a round metal disc, which is fastened to the body of the mine by a piece of twine which he ties around the cloth.
Another glance in the direction of the dogs.
He pulls a priming pin from the bomb and covers the explosive with leaves.
He takes off into the forest.
The dogs and their handlers halt by the bush.
A small dog with beady eyes, tan fur and a white beard sniffs around leaves and ferns.
The handlers look at each other.
One of the soldiers looks along the tree.
The rusty grey shape of the Tall Boy Missile is lodged in the ground and leaning against the branch.
Wide-eyed and terrified, the handlers quickly pull the excited dogs away.
A soldier kneels to inspect the ground.
He sees the cloth with the twine wrapped around it.
He picks up the cloth, revealing the triggered bomb mechanism beneath.
The claymore ignites the Tall Boy Missile which erupts into a mushroom cloud of smoke and flame.
The blast tears through trees and shrubs and spreads out like a concentric wave of destruction from its epicenter, throwing up dirt and leaves and knocking over soldiers.
Sarah and School Boy watch.
From the river, the tall boat captain notes the grey smoke from the explosion on land and signals with his hand.
The boat moves off.
Sarah and School Boy keep running.
The patrol boat zips along the river.
Sarah and School Boy run down a leafy path.
He motions her to stop.
They crouch.
He rests his rifle on a tree and uses the site as a telescope.
She looks.
The escapees are being kicked and beaten by soldiers.
School Boy lifts his rifle off the tree and searches the area using the sight.
In his cross-hairs is the commander's truck with its machine gun operator.
Sarah and School Boy are on a hill overlooking the harbor.
Soldiers kick and stomp on the mercenaries and missionaries, who cover their heads with their hands.
Some of the troops use the butts of their rifles to inflict blows.
The commander supervises.
The commander beats them with a stick.
The commander whips them with his stick.
Reese's lips move, as if in silent prayer.
The commander jabs his stick into Lewis' shredded leg.
The group are dragged to their knees and lined up in front of the troops, who raise their rifles execution-style.
Michael stares hopelessly ahead.
From above, Sarah and School Boy look distraught.
The troops take aim.
The group have their hands on their heads.
En-Joo spits on the ground.
The gunner on the Jeep watches intently, not seeing Rambo rise behind him.
Rambo cuts off his head with a machete.
He shoots the Jeep driver with the machine-gun.
He turns the gun around on its turntable and begins picking off the Burmese troops.
From his vantage point, School Boy lines off troops in his sights.
A single shot from School Boy rips through two soldiers in tandem.
Sarah covers her ears and shots arise.
The remains of the Jeep driver tumble off the vehicle.
A group of soldiers are cut in two.
A soldier's leg is severed at the knee and he falls over.
En-Joo finds a weapon and starts shooting.
Lewis grabs a soldier by the leg and pulls him over, head- butts him unconscious and spits on him contemptuously.
Reese pulls a knife from his boot and stabs a trooper.
Lewis finds a weapon and dishes out mayhem of his own.
En-Joo runs out of ammo and takes a grenade from a fallen soldier, pulls the pin and throws.
Reese rifle-butts a soldier in the face, then shoots another.
Lewis shoots from behind a tree trunk.
Diaz twists the neck of a soldier and stabs him.
En-Joo climbs up a flight of wooden stairs and finds another rifle.
He begins popping away.
Rambo runs out of ammo and takes cover behind a gun.
Sarah looks over with concern.
A soldier hurls a primed grenade at En-Joo.
Lewis shoots the soldier but the grenade has found its target.
En-Joo's bloody carcass is hurled to the ground.
Rambo ducks down and finds a box of ammo.
He tears it open and starts reloading the gun.
One of the volunteers gets away, followed by the commander who is armed with an automatic pistol.
Michael sees him.
The commander aims at the volunteer's back.
The volunteer pitches forward in the dirt.
The commander runs away.
Rambo continues his reloading.
Soldiers surround his position.
He ducks as hot metal whizzes by.
Michael watches as a soldier crawls toward Lewis' position.
The soldier shoots Lewis in the shoulder.
Michael leaps on the soldier and they tumble together down the a short incline.
Michael finds a rock in the sand.
He pounds the soldier in the head into bloody, unconsciousness, his face a mask of indignant fury.
Horrified, he slumps onto the sand.
Fire rips through the battleground.
A soldier flies through the air, his uniform on fire.
A man in an orange top loads a mortar rocket into a launcher on the hill.
A collection of people in khaki and civilian colors pour down the hill.
Rambo completes his reload and fires into the remaining troops.
On the hill, a rebel loads another mortar into the launcher and covers his ears.
BN jumps over a tree trunk, rolls and fires on troops.
The commander runs towards a group of his soldiers, gesturing behind him.
They begin a retreat, but are picked off one by one.
The commander has to make his strategic withdrawal by himself.
BN notices the patrol boat as it rounds a headland in the river.
He scrambles down an incline towards the waterside.
The gunner on the boat starts firing on the shore.
The shells obliterate the canopy on Rambo's boat.
The patrol boat is armed with a flame thrower and a machine -gun.
A jet of flame belches towards the shore, engulfing rebels.
Rambo fires on the boat, tearing through the metal wall of its cabin.
Rambo takes a hit and falls from the machine-gun platform.
Sarah covers her ears.
A sheet of flame catches a volunteer in a brown shirt.
He rolls in the sand.
A truck of army reinforcements arrives.
Rambo gets back on the machine-gun platform.
The reinforcements are cut to ribbons in the truck.
Rambo fires on the boat.
Bullets smash through its windscreen, killing captain and helmsman.
A bullet from School Boy decapitates the machine-gunner.
On the shore, BN fires a loaded bazooka.
The boat is obliterated.
Rambo spots the commander escaping up the hill.
He leaps down from the machine-gun platform and gives chase.
The commander stops, impaled on Rambo's machete.
Rambo faces the man.
The commander blows out his cheeks and looks up at the big man.
Rambo rips the guy's stomach open.
The commander drops to the ground and Rambo kicks the man's corpse away with a hefty boot.
It rolls away and lies face down.
Rambo looks wearily down at the field of battle.
From her vantage point with School Boy, Sarah does the same.
A couple of straggling troopers scuttle away.
Sarah makes her way down the hill.
School Boy picks up his hefty weapon and follows her.
Rambo also trudges back to the jeep.
At the bottom of the hill, rebels buzz about.
Smoke billows and some of the foliage is burnt.
Sarah looks about her.
Rambo lingers at the truck, watching her.
Then, he frowns and feels his left shoulder with his right hand, checking his wound.
The back of his hand is bloody.
Sarah finds Michael crouching over a wounded man.
He looks up.
She runs to him and flings her arms around him.
He has a wound to his forehead, and his face is black with soot and grime.
Rambo watches them.
Sarah and Michael embrace for a few moments, then he gently pushes her arms away and strokes her hair.
He then returns to the wounded man.
School Boy kneels over Lewis, and Reese over En-Joo's corpse.
Sarah looks up the hill at Rambo.
Her face is grimy, and she has a light cut across her forehead.
She looks at School Boy, who stares down at Lewis.
Lewis stirs a little.
She looks at the corpse of one of the volunteers, who has bullet wounds in his chest.
Michael looks up the hill and sees Rambo.
Wide-eyed and frowning, he raises a hand to Rambo.
Sarah's face crumples and she starts to weep.
Rambo turns away, clutching his shoulder.
John Rambo walks along a lonely road halfway up a hill in Arizona, U.S.A.
The hill is decorated with scrubby green grass.
Utility poles stretch along the length of the road.
Rambo's hair is neatly brushed and his face clean.
He wears a pair of dark boots, blue denims and a khaki parka over a black T-shirt.
There is a khaki kit bag slung over one shoulder.
He approaches a battered domestic mailbox mounted on a pole.
He looks down the hill.
At the top of a lane is an open six-bar gate.
At the end of a lane is a small collection of farm buildings nestling in a group of trees.
There is livestock in an adjacent field.
Rambo looks back up the road the way he came, then at the farm.
With the merest hint of a smile, he begins to walk down the lane towards the farm.
A bright white light shines out from the center of a black screen.
The screen lightens to reveal clouds and a blue sky.
The light is held aloft by a statuesque woman wearing a long, white robe with a blue sash draped around her.
She stands on a raised plinth before the cloudy sky.
An orange disc surrounded by black revolves like a record on a turntable.
Shafts of light gradually form the shape of a running man.
The figure becomes smaller and is frozen in the iris of an intensely blue eye.
The image fades to black.
A handsome black guy holds a receiver to his ear.
He covers his eyes with his hand.
He rocks back and forth.
He removes his hand from his face.
The silhouette of the man swims the crawl on the surface.
Sun glints on the surface of the water.
The man swims to shore, and strides onto the beach.
The man, tall, lean and in his 30s, walks up steps from the beach which cut through a garden, abundant with colorful flowers and bushes.
A long low beach house with white flowers trailing from part of its roof looks out over a patio, the garden and the ocean.
In the house, the man studies himself solemnly in a mirror as he fastens his tie.
The man sits pensively on his sofa.
Before him on a coffee table is a list of names with a typed note attached to it.
The name Ezra Turner has been encircled on the list.
In a call center cubicle, a man wearing a headset sits at a computer.
Ezra types on a braille keyboard.
Ezra disconnects the call.
Ben slams the phone down.
Looking disturbed by his own actions, Ben claps his hands to his mouth and stares down.
He blinks, composes himself and lowers his hands.
Pacing, Ben stabs the air with a finger each time he calls out a name.
Ben smashes a chair against a coffee table.
A list of name scrolls.
A rapid montage of items -- a newspaper article, a coast road, snapshots of Ben, Sarah Jenson's funeral card.
A deserted open plan office in shadowy light.
A cleaner polishes a floor in a brightly lit corridor.
Ben sits in a cubicle, typing on a keyboard.
He stairs at his computer monitor gravely.
The name, Emily Posa, has been encircled on his list beside him.
Above it, the name Yvonne Bastidos has been crossed out.
Ben stairs pensively at the details, which include a photo of attractive, dark-haired Emily.
He prints out her details.
Traffic glides along a sunny freeway.
Ben stares ahead gravely as he drives.
On the seat beside him is a file with Emily Posa's details attached to it.
Ben's smart saloon pulls up outside an olive green clapboard house with a white picket fence.
A black and white Great Dane stands barking at him in the garden.
Ben gets out of the car, and locks it with a remote.
Dressed in a smart suit and tie, Ben goes to the fence but stops short and stares at the dog.
A neighbor who is gardening spots him.
Ben parks on an upper story of a car park, which looks onto St. Matthew Medical Center.
Ben enters the center and goes to a blonde middle-aged woman on the reception desk.
Ben's in a lift.
He stands aside as two doctors wearing stethoscopes get in with him.
Ben holds back the door.
Emily gets in.
They all face the front.
Then Ben turns and studies Emily for a long moment.
His expression concerned.
Emily, who is slender and wearing a nightdress, gets out of the lift and walks listlessly down a hospital corridor.
Ben waits and stops the lift door closing with the briefcase he's carrying.
He gets out of the lift and follows Emily at a discreet distance.
He stops at double doors and looks through the glass panes in them.
He sees Emily, who is wearing UGG boots with her nighty, shuffle down onto a ward.
Ben follows her.
Emily's image blurs.
She passes a reception desk, then rounds a corner and disappears.
Ben approaches the desk.
Ben smiles and gives the stout nurse a brief wave as he heads away.
His smile fades as he walks.
A clip attached to Emily's forefinger attaches her to an electrocardiograph machine.
Emily lies asleep in her hospital bed in shadowy light.
Ben stands in the doorway watching her intently.
His expression sad.
As she stirs, Ben makes a swift but calm exit.
Emily glimpses him.
She sits up and stares after him.
Emily frowns and looks puzzled.
Ben's car is parked in the dark, wet night.
He sits at the wheel, deep in solemn thought as the wipers sweep back and forth.
Ben addresseses colleagues in a small conference room at Apogee Aeronautics.
He points to a rocket model.
Ben checks a message on his BlackBerry.
Ben drives a Corvette sports car.
He enters the beach house and puts down his things.
She's on the patio, looking out to sea.
Ben lies lethargically on his couch, staring at his mobile phone on the coffee table.
He picks the mobile up.
Ben snaps his mobile shut and throws it down.
Ben drives his saloon along the sunny coast road from the beach house.
He pulls up in a parking spot outside a large institutional- looking building with the stars and stripes hanging over the door.
Ben gets out of his car and admires a shiny BMW convertible parked beside him.
Elderly ladies, one on a Zimmer, shuffle down a corridor.
Ben passes them as he strides towards the reception window, which is open, and shows IRS ID.
A suited man sits on the edge of Inez's bed.
Inez reaches for a pad.
But he grabs her wrist, then is aware of Ben.
She shuns his touch.
Inez ignores him.
He goes to Ben.
Goodman looks awkward and leans forward.
Ben stares at him impassively.
Ben nods and cocks his head to one side as he continues staring at Goodman.
He straightens up again, smiles faintly and picks up his briefcase.
Ben's lip curls disdainfully as they shake hands.
Ben enters Inez's room.
Frail and white-haired, Inez is lying in bed.
She ignores him and merely sighs.
Ben gives a kindly smile.
She stares ahead, stony-faced.
Ben puts his briefcase on the floor.
He moves gingerly to a chair and turns it towards her bed.
Ben sits down at Inez's bedside.
She continues staring vacantly ahead.
Inez shifts slightly.
Inez, who has straggly hair, remains blank.
Inez turns her head slowly to look at Ben.
He smiles gently.
Inez's face is heavily lined.
She stares at Ben pensively, then turns stiffly and reaches out a bony hand to pick up her writing pad and pen from a surface nearby.
Inez studies Ben once more, then begins to write something down.
He watches.
Inez nods and writes some more.
Inez looks at Ben wearily.
Her bottom lip quivers.
She looks away.
A tearful Inez glances at Ben, who gives her an encouraging little smile.
Inez begins to write again.
As Ben reads her words, his brow furrows.
He looks dismayed.
Inez's face crumples.
She weeps.
Ben looks deeply moved and raises his clasped hands to his mouth.
He hurriedly carries Inez out of the room, and puts her into a wheelchair and wheels her past reception.
Ben is in his face.
Ben pushes Goodman's head back against a window and marches out.
A sunny golf course.
A woman in a short, white skirt and a T-shirt gets out of a golf buggy with a guy in chinos and a polo shirt.
They walk to a ball.
Ben approaches them.
They hug.
Michelle moves away.
Ben looks him in the eye and shakes his head.
A network of freeway flyovers in sunshine.
Ben drives his saloon.
In a hospital canteen, an elderly patient attached to a drip wheels the stand it's on as he walks.
Most of the tables, which have vases of yellow flowers on them, are occupied.
Ben sits at a table, reading.
He looks up from his book and watches a woman with two young boys who are drawing at a table nearby.
One boy is bald.
He's wearing a dressing gown and pajamas.
The boy spots Ben, who smiles and nods, then returns briefly to reading.
Ben takes a paper cup and sucks on the straw in it, all the while observing the boys and the woman.
The woman smiles as she watches the boys.
The bald boy glances across at Ben, but looks down again shyly.
Behind the boys, in Ben's line of sight, Emily sits at a table by a window.
Ben resumes reading.
Emily, wearing a short strappy dress over a vest top, approaches Ben's table and glances over at the shaven-headed boy before speaking.
He gets out his ID.
Ben smiles.
Ben puts her files back in his briefcase and leaves with a polite smile.
Emily remains sitting at the table.
Looking drained, she stares down dejectedly.
A blue and white neon sign for the Travel Inn glows in the night.
Ben pulls up in his saloon outside the slightly seedy- looking motel.
He gets out of the car and goes to the reception window.
Ben goes to look through an open door.
A pudgy bearded guy spots him and comes out from behind a lacy curtain.
Ben returns to the reception window where the guy now greets him.
Ben lets himself into a dark room and carries in his cases.
He puts his keys on a table and shuts the door.
Ben sits on his bed in dim lamp light and takes a book and a file out of his bag.
The file appears to be full of newspaper cuttings.
Ben opens it and studies the first cutting intently.
Beneath, the photos of the seven people killed.
Ben watches an ice hockey practice.
Two players collide, then fight.
Emily puts the phone down.
She scans about the room.
Emily opens French windows and goes outside.
Looking shocked, Emily goes around the side of the house to find Ben feeding Duke.
Duke pulls her.
Duke pulls.
Duke keeps pulling Ben.
Emily gets a container out of her fridge.
Ben studies documents.
Emily looks astonished and stares at him, brow furrowed.
He stares down at the table they're sitting at.
She fiddles with her collar.
He smiles good-humoredly and considers.
Once again, Emily looks astounded.
Ben grins and looks down.
Taken aback, Emily blinks as the decision sinks in.
Ben gets up.
They share a lingering look.
Ben smiles broadly and heads out.
Emily ponders.
He turns back.
Emily walks up to him.
He stares at her with sad, gentle eyes.
He raises his eyebrows, then looks serious.
She stares at Ben and blinks.
Ben gives an awkward, white-toothed grin and makes for the front door.
They hold each other's gaze.
Then, Emily smiles and looks down shyly.
Ben shuffles.
She gives a little wave as Ben steps outside.
Ben shoots Emily a last look before shutting the door behind him.
Ben goes to his car.
Emily watches him through the window.
Ben stands, looking out from his patio.
Breakers crash on the beach where Sarah waves up to Ben.
Tears rolls down Ben's cheeks as he stands looking out to sea.
Ben sits on rocks.
Ben opens shutters in his beach house.
Ben fingers a rope of pearls and studies a photo of himself and Sarah.
Ben cleans his beach house.
Ben sits glumly among a stack of packed boxes in the beach house.
Ben drives his car sedately along the wide and winding coast road, which is bathed in sunshine.
The motel receptionist, Larry, helps Ben carry gear.
In his motel room, Ben uses a small hose to fill up the large cylindrical fish tank that Larry was carrying.
Light from the tank illuminates Ben's face as he stands in the darkness, seemingly lost in thought.
Ben, as a boy, at an aquarium.
Ban gazes in awe into a tank of jellyfish with spindly, long tentacles.
The jellyfish move hypnotically in the water.
The glowing specter-like creatures drift through the water.
Ben the boy watches spellbound, the palms of his hands pressed against the tank.
Michelle's husband, Dan, watches a box jellyfish in adult Ben's tank.
Ben is writing.
Ben signs a document.
Ben throws a notebook at Dan.
Ben taps his own temple.
Dan's expression darkens.
Dan edgily wipes his mouth, then his eyes.
He glares at Ben and falters, before he starts to speak.
Dan paces the motel room tearfully.
Ben enters a crowded waiting room full of women and children.
He stands and stares across at a bespectacled middle-aged woman, who is sitting in a glass-fronted office.
Her mouth drops open when she sees Ben.
He waves to her and smiles.
The woman hurries out to him.
Holly hugs him tightly, then steps back.
Holly keeps a photo of herself and Ben on her desk in the open-plan office.
He sits with her.
Holly's eyes glisten with tears as she stares at him.
He eyes her steadily and smiles faintly.
She considers, then looks at him reassuringly.
A dilapidated area.
Ben sits in his car, watching a house.
Connie is cleaning a window of the house.
Ben approaches the window and smiles in at Connie, who opens the front door but not the wrought iron screen door.
Connie lets Ben in.
A little boy of about eight and a slightly older girl are in the living room, playing cards and listening.
Ben sits down.
The children listen as they play.
He nods towards her ribs.
She hurries to the children.
She escorts them out to their room, then returns.
Connie looks petrified.
She slams the door on Ben and locks it.
Ben pauses outside, facing the door dejectedly.
After a moment, he leaves the modest clapboard house.
Ben cuts off his brother.
In his motel bathroom, Ben lies fully clothed in a bath that is too short for him.
He tries to wriggle down, but his head remains well above the level of the bath.
Emily is at home working at her kitchen table.
Documents are stacked on the small table.
Emily is making notes.
She studies her pad thoughtfully, checks a document, then searches through more documents.
She scribbles a number out on her pad and encircles another number.
Looking down forlornly at the documents before her, Emily sighs and opens her Filofax.
She takes out Ben's business card and studies it.
A doctor in a white coat enters a hospital ward.
He approaches the ice hockey coach and Ben.
The doctor goes to Ben.
He shakes Ben's hand and leaves.
George returns Ben's kindly stare with a slight smile.
In another hospital room, Ben makes a call on his mobile.
Emily is drying up in her kitchen.
Ben holds his mobile to his ear.
Ben stands looking distraught, then closes his mobile.
Ben sits in deep, gloomy thought.
A nurse comes to get him.
She goes.
Ben stares down gravely.
Ben raises his eyes and stares ahead, his face etched with anguish as he remembers.
A man and a woman's hand in bright light.
Their fingers entwined and they caress each other's skin.
Lying in bed, beautiful dark-haired Sarah smiles up at Ben beside her.
Metal debris spins and scatters in slow motion.
A woman is tossed about.
A van flips on a dark road.
Ben comes to on his motel bed.
He's lying on his stomach and looks woozy.
A hand comes from behind him and gently strokes his cheek.
The figure of a dream-like Sarah gradually lies back down.
Ben is alone in bed.
His mouth hangs open loosely.
His eyes blink sleepily.
Emily's neighbor is gardening when Emily walks up to her with Duke on a lead.
Emily walks on slowly past her neighbor's profusion of colorful roses and begins to fight for breath.
Emily looks faint.
Duke bounds into Emily's garden.
Emily blinks, and walks towards her steps.
Emily falls flat on her face on the path.
She's motionless.
Her eyes are closed.
Ezra Turner uses a long, white stick to feel his way down a wide and long flight of stairs.
Out on the street, Ezra feels his way along the pavements with the stick held out in front of him.
Ezra sits playing the piano in the foyer of a modern glass and steel mall.
People of all different ages mill in the area, going about their business.
Ben stands in a shop doorway, watching Ezra play.
Ben looks deeply moved and appears to drift off into his own thoughts.
A couple cuddle and giggle in a diner.
Ezra, who's in his 40s, sits at a table nearby, sipping from a mug.
A pretty, blonde waitress speaks to him.
Ben sits, watching nearby.
Susan walks off.
Ben watches sympathetically, then gets up.
He throws money down onto his table.
Then, saunters up to Ezra's table.
Ezra, an attractive man with an aquiline nose and longish brown hair, sips his drink then self-consciously smooths down his hair, unaware of Ben standing over him.
Ben looks down at the pie on a plate in front of Ezra.
Ezra's blue eyes are clouded.
A look of surprise crosses Ezra's face as Ben goes.
A single box jellyfish floats in Ben's aquarium in the motel.
Ben sits watching it.
Ben sits motionless in the shadowy room, then goes to pick up his mobile.
He checks the display and slowly opens up the mobile.
Emily, in hospital.
Lying in bed with air tubes running from her nose, Emily fiddles with his card.
She holds her mobile away from her and looks at it briefly.
He walks down a corridor.
He leaves his motel.
She snuggles down in the bed.
Ben walks in the night.
Emily's smile fades.
She closes her eyes and smiles.
Her eyes are open again.
Emily blinks and begins to look drowsy.
Phone to his ear, Ben walks towards the main door of the St. Matthew Center.
The glass doors slide apart and he enters.
Ben walks down a hospital corridor towards Emily's room.
He stops outside her room and looks at her through the window.
Emily lies fast asleep, surrounded by machines and monitors.
Ben closes his clamshell mobile phone.
Emily lies on her side.
Her ear pressed against her phone, which lies on a pillow beneath her.
Ben slowly and gently pulls the phone out and shuts it.
Ben stands, looking down at her tenderly.
Ben puts Emily's phone on the bed, draws up a chair and sits at her bedside.
Ben stares down at her peaceful, but bruised face.
Emily continues sleeping peacefully.
Emily asleep on her side, wakes, blinks drowsily and rubs her eyes as she slowly comes to.
She sits up a little, freezes, then sits up fully.
Emily stares down at Ben, who is slumped back in the chair beside her bed, fast asleep.
Removing the oxygen tubes from her nose, Emily watches Ben, then slowly reaches out, and caresses the back of one of his hands with her fingertips.
Ben stirs.
He sits up.
A doctor enters.
Dr. Briar sits on Emily's bed.
Emily nods.
She hands Emily the pager.
Emily takes a deep breath and looks down.
Dr. Briar strokes Emily's hair, gives her a reassuring smile and leaves.
Tears roll down Emily's cheeks as she puts a hand to her mouth.
She takes his hand.
Ben looks on sorrowfully as Emily presses the back of his hand against her forehead and weeps.
Ben walks Duke on a lead past the Travel Inn reception.
Larry sees and comes out after them.
Ben enters his room.
Long-haired Larry is left outside, looking indignant.
A small fish swims up into the tentacles of the box jellyfish in Ben's aquarium.
The fish is immediately partially paralyzed and drawn up towards the body of the jellyfish.
Ben sits on his motel bed, watching, and slowly reaches for his mobile beside him.
Connie's face is bruised.
Ben hands her an envelope.
Connie does.
She nods.
They're asleep in the back of her car.
A calm Connie drives along the coast road with the children still asleep in the back of the car.
She heads down the leafy drive to Ben's beach house, pulls up and looks awestruck.
Connie tentatively enters the house with the children.
They stand in the doorway for a moment, then the girl sets off to look about.
Connie pulls her back.
The kids run to a window to look out.
Connie and the kids enter a bedroom and look about in wonder.
They all jump up and down on the bed.
Mother and children run along the deserted, sunny beach.
In the house, curtains sway in the breeze as Connie sits reading a letter.
Connie, her long, dark hair tied back, considers.
Looking overwhelmed, Connie puts her hands to her mouth.
Connie holds a pen.
Her hand hovers over a document, then she signs it.
Connie looks out over the ocean.
Connie is silhouetted against hazy, golden light.
Ben escorts Emily, as a nurse pushes her out of the hospital in a wheelchair.
They go to his car and he opens the door for Emily to get in.
Duke's in the back.
He fastens her seat belt.
Emily grins.
He stares ahead.
She gazes at him and smiles, then lightly nibbles her nails.
Ben pulls up and turns to her awkwardly.
Ben's eyes dart about as he thinks.
He eyes her firmly.
She stares at him and looks puzzled.
Emily studies him through slightly narrowed eyes.
She stares at him expectantly, opens her eyes wide and furrows her brows.
Ben meets her gaze blankly.
Emily looks down, considers, then undoes her seat belt.
She shoots him a disdainful look and gets out.
She stops on the steps of her house.
Their eyes lock.
Ben stands, looking up at her apologetically.
Emily looks disappointed.
Her eyes linger on him briefly, then she turns and goes inside.
Ben stands looking up at the door.
Ben gets into his saloon.
He angrily tugs at his seat belt to fasten it, then screams.
A middle-aged woman sits at a table in Emily's kitchen.
Emily clears the plates.
Emily takes them to the sink, leaving the nurse, Kate, at the table.
Emily looks out of the window to see Ben working in the garden.
Emily watches him, then walks through to French windows in the living room, then goes out into the lush garden.
Ben is bending from the waist down and pulling up weeds.
He tugs out more weeds.
He smiles and carries on working.
Emily watches him.
She turns back to look at him.
Ben, whose shirt sleeves are rolled up to his elbows, follows her to double wooden doors.
She unlocks the padlock on them.
Shafts of hazy, golden light flood into the workshop as they enter.
Letter presses.
She takes paper.
She pedals a flywheel.
She printed an angelic woman with butterfly wings.
He studies the colorful image.
Ben meets her gaze.
Emily smiles impishly.
In a large, sunny field, Emily sits in long grass watching Ben play with Duke, who bounds to retrieve something.
Emily smiles gleefully.
They sit in shade.
Ben shakes his head.
Duke sits with them beneath a shade of a tree.
Ben nods faintly and watches her intently.
She folds her cardigan around her.
Emily glances at Ben and plays with a blade of grass.
They look into each other's eyes and Ben nods.
Emily looks away.
Her long, dark hair frames her soft features.
She draws a strand of hair back behind her ear.
Ben studies her as she speaks, then lowers his eyes.
Emily looks down and smiles wistfully.
Ben reaches out her hand, and briefly caresses her hair.
Duke's head sticks out of Ben's car window as they drive along the avenue of palm trees to Emily's quaint clapboard house, and pull up outside it.
Emily gives Ben a sweet, uncertain smile.
She nods.
Emily beams, and then leans over and kisses him on the cheek.
Ben looks emotional.
She gets out and gets Duke out from the back seat.
She looks in through the open, front passenger window.
Ben watches Emily go, then turns away pensively.
A faint smile flickers across his features.
Ben drives off.
Ben sits in the sunny field, smiling to himself.
Ben's saloon pulls up outside Emily's.
He kills the lights and removes his seat belt.
Soft light shines out from the house as Ben, carrying a shoulder bag, sneaks through Emily's pretty garden towards the workshop.
Ben takes a key from behind an upper hinge of the workshop door and glances over his shoulder at Duke, who sits nearby watching him.
Ben unlocks the padlock.
Duke follows him into the workshop.
He flicks a switch on it.
Ben gets tools out of his bag.
Ben sets to work on the machine.
Stripped down to his vest, lithe, muscular Ben hammers a pin out of the machine.
He undoes a huge knot with an equally huge monkey wrench and fits a new belt on the flywheel.
Duke lies snoozing nearby, as Ben reassembles the machine.
Ben leaves the workshop with Duke, who escorts him down the side of the house to the gate.
Ben gets in his car and drives off.
Ben takes a shower at the motel.
Looking troubled once more, he stands beneath the fine jets of water and stares down deep in thought.
Flashbacks of Ben running through the night.
Ben's face is bloody in the flashback.
He stops running and sinks to his haunches.
In his motel, Ben sits on the edge of the bath, staring down.
He's bare chested and has a white towel wrapped around his waist.
A flashback of a bloodied garment.
And an inert, blood-smeared hand lying on earth.
A dream-like image of Sarah.
She's wearing a pink dress, then smiling gently as she looks down at something.
She walks away slowly from Ben's motel room bed and out of sight.
Ben, dressed, lies on his back on the bed.
Ben watches the bald boy, Nick, through a window.
Nick looks weak and is attached to monitors.
His mother is reading to him while a nurse fills in a chart beside them.
Ben is lying face down on an examination table.
The doctor uses a large syringe.
Ben buries his face in a pillow as the doctor extracts the bone marrow from his hip.
Later, Ben limps slowly into the motel, where Larry is watering plants.
Ben ignores him.
Ben enters his room.
Ben lies on his side in the motel room bed.
An unfinished plate of food sits on the covers, along with documents and handwritten letters.
Ben ignores his phone.
Ben's face is now stubbly.
He's sitting up in bed, staring ahead somberly.
Ben lies asleep on his side.
His mobile flashes as it rings.
Ben's eyes open slowly.
He stares at the mobile, which lies beside him on the bed.
He hesitates before picking it up, then checks the display and opens the clamshell phone.
He puts the phone to his ear.
She cringes and looks hopeful.
Emily breaks into an uncertain smile.
She smiles and puts down the phone.
The home nurse gives Emily a questioning look.
In the motel room, Ben looks in a mirror as he carefully shaves off his heavy stubble with a wet razor.
He stops and studies himself solemnly.
Ben pulls up at Emily's.
Ben gets out of the car with a gift-wrapped parcel.
He reconsiders, puts it back in the car and walks towards the house.
Emily opens the door.
The nurse comes out.
A gift-wrapped box.
Ben, wearing his customary gray suit and shirt and tie, enters Emily's bedroom carrying the gift.
One of the walls is covered in photos, some of Emily at different ages.
Ben studies them.
Ben moves slowly over to the window, which has a fine net curtain over it.
He watches as Emily carries the casserole she took out of the oven to a candlelit table.
On another table, the flame of a tea light glows in the darkness.
Ben puts the box down and catches sight of himself in a full-length mirror.
Ben comes out of the bedroom wearing polo shirt and jeans.
He stands at the opened French windows.
Emily is sitting at the table.
Ben looks down at his outfit.
Emily nods and smiles.
She waves her hand, motioning for him to come outside.
Looking slightly awkward, he goes to the table and looks about.
Candles are lit everywhere.
She nods and smiles at him.
Ben scratches his eyebrow shyly.
Emily stretches out her upturned palm and gestures for Ben to sit at the table.
Emily studies him seriously.
She nods encouragingly.
Ben eagerly picks up his fork.
Ben tries a mouthful.
Ben stifles a slight grimace and looks sincere.
She smiles triumphantly.
They're still at the table.
Emily frowns as she listens to Ben humming.
She shakes her head.
Emily goes to a record player.
Her back is to Ben as she falters slightly, takes a deep breath then puts a record on the turntable.
Emily sings along.
She offers Ben her hand.
Ben is sitting forward in his seat, his hands clasped in front of him.
He looks lost in sad thought.
Emily slides her slender hand between his.
Ben comes out of his reverie as she pulls him to his feet.
He smiles.
They dance close together.
Emily's left hand is on Ben's right shoulder.
His right hand rests on her back.
Their free hands are clasped as they move slowly, almost dancing on the spot.
Their eyes are locked in an intense gaze, their faces close.
He nods.
Emily walks behind Ben with her hands on his shoulders as he leads her into the workshop and switches on the light.
He goes to the Beast.
Emily opens her eyes.
Ben turns to face her as she scans about the workshop, trying to spot the surprise.
The Beast is now gleaming.
She approaches with an unconvinced smile.
Emily reaches for the switch.
Emily's eyes widen, as she looks at Ben in awe as the fly wheels turn.
Emily presses down a lever.
The piston arms pump, picking up paper, setting it on the platen, and printing on it.
Emily watches in amazement, then wraps her arms around Ben's neck and hugs him tight.
Ben gradually responds to her touch.
He rests his head on her shoulder, closes his eyes and lays his hands on her back.
A tearful Emily nuzzles into him.
Ben stands back.
Ben gently draws her to him and plants a lingering kiss on her lips.
Emily brushes her fingers against Ben's cheek as they continue kissing passionately.
They break off and stand with their foreheads together.
Ben pulls back a little.
He kisses her fingertips.
Ben hurries out of the workshop.
He steps over the low picket fence, goes to unlock his car, and takes out the gift.
His brother.
Ben, now Tim, goes to his car.
He reaches in for the ID.
Tim hands the ID to his brother, Ben.
Tim, who has put his gift back in the car, looks sheepish.
The real Ben considers uneasily for a moment.
Tim reaches into his jeans' pocket and hands them over.
Tim walks briskly back towards the house, then breaks into a jog.
He steps back over the picket fence and returns to the workshop.
Emily sits in a sultry pose, waiting for him.
Emily stands.
Shuffling uneasily, he reluctantly moves away from Emily's touch.
Ever-persistent, she draws his face to her and kisses his cheek.
Tim calms a little, then lets her kiss his cheek several more times.
Cupping his face in her hands, Emily kisses Tim on the lips.
Tim remains motionless and with his eyes closed.
Tim gradually begins to kiss her back.
Tears roll down his cheeks.
The couple wrap their arms tightly around each other as they continue to kiss with mounting passion.
Emily's arms are around Tim's neck, as he lifts her legs and holds her in his arms.
They kiss again.
Tim carries her out of the workshop.
Tim and Emily, still kissing, fall back on gold satin pillows.
Tim kneels astride Emily, who helps him off with his polo shirt.
She sees a long scar running from his side and back.
In golden light, Emily slips off her delicate sandals and undoes the clasp on her halterneck dress.
She and Ben move slowly into a tender kiss.
Tim lays a hand gently on a scar on Emily's naked breast and kisses it.
Outside, rain streaks a window, making the image of the kissing couple inside hazy.
The scene fades to black.
In the garden, rain bounces off the abandoned dinner table where droplets plop into half-empty glasses of white wine.
A candle flame flickers in a struggle to stay alight.
Emily and Tim lie in each other's arms in bed.
They caress each other's faces.
She stares into his eyes.
Tim strokes her arm as he stares into her adoring eyes.
Emily plays gently with his ear, then lowers her eyes and lightly touches his lips with her fingertips.
Emily stares at him earnestly.
Emily looks tearful and puts her lips to his shoulder.
A large tear rolls down Emily's nose.
Tim hugs her to him.
She buries her face in his chest.
They kiss.
The pulse in Emily's neck jumps rhythmically.
Golden light bathes her face as she lies sleeping peacefully.
Tim lies beside Emily, watching her closely.
Emily's hand rests palm-up on the empty pillow beside her.
She twitches slightly but doesn't wake.
The scar on the upper part of her left breast shows just above the sheet.
Tim, now dressed in his jeans, stands at her bedside and pulls on his polo shirt.
Looking troubled, he stares down at Emily.
Tim leaves the house by the French windows.
He sets off slowly across the dark garden in the pouring rain, then jogs to the picket fence.
He jumps over it.
Tim runs frantically down a street of shops, some of which have neon-lit signs.
Soaked to the skin, Tim bursts into a hospital corridor and strides down it to the nurses' station.
The nurse eyes Tim warily.
Looking fraught and agitated, Tim turns away from the nurses' station, paces a little and sits down on a chair beside a water cooler.
He stares at the floor.
Tim looks up when Dr. Briar enters the corridor and walks to meet her.
She looks alarmed.
Tim raises a hand helplessly, marches back along the corridor and pushes through the double doors.
The hospital's main doors slide open.
Tim walks out into the night.
The rain cascades as a grief-stricken Tim strides away from the hospital.
As he walks, he takes his mobile phone from his jeans' pocket and taps in a number.
Dan and Michelle lie asleep in each other's arms.
Dan reaches for the phone on his bedside cabinet.
Tim rings off.
Dan, now sitting up in bed, remains with the phone to his ear and drops his head.
Tim returns to his motel room and pauses in the doorway.
His expression is slightly glazed, as if consumed by his own sad thoughts.
He turns and stares outside, then closes the door.
Tim sits on the edge of his bed, panting.
Regaining his composure slightly, Tim reaches for the phone on his bedside cabinet and makes a call.
Ezra is woken by the ringing.
He presses a button on a digital clock beside his bed.
He picks up the phone.
Tim hangs up.
Ezra, now sitting on the side of his bed in shadowy light, lowers the phone slowly from his ear and swallows hard.
In the motel, Tim pulls a large bag of ice from the freezer.
He slits it open, dumps it into the bathtub, and turns on the shower.
He checks his watch, which is on the side of the bath, then makes a call.
Tim covers his face with his hand and nods as he weeps.
Tim rocks back a forth.
Sarah, admires her engagement ring.
As Tim emails a response to the message he received, the Corvette wanders into the opposite lane, narrowly missing an oncoming car.
The Corvette spins and collides with a van full of people.
The van flips several times, throwing its passengers about like rag dolls.
The Corvette Tim was driving bounces and rolls down a steep embankment.
The Corvette comes to rest as a mangled heap among bushes.
In his motel room, Tim steps gingerly into the bathtub of iced water.
He's wearing the jeans and polo shirt.
He slowly lowers himself into the tub.
He's left a note on the floor beside the tub.
Tim recalls a blissful-looking Emily lying in bed with him and stroking his face.
He surfaces from the memory and reaches for a plastic bucket on the side of the bath.
He pours the contents into the water.
The box jellyfish glides through the water and up to Tim's hand.
It languidly wraps its tentacles around his forearm and stings him.
Tim jolts.
His body instantly goes into shock from the poison.
As he spasms, he grabs hold of the shower curtain around the bath.
Tim's legs kick.
A flashback to the accident.
Tim hurriedly staggers through undergrowth.
He tears up the shower curtain, bringing it and the rail down on himself.
Another flashback.
Tim lurches toward Sarah, who's been thrown from the car and lies on the dark road.
He crouches beside her.
Tim spasms begin to subside.
In a flashback, he reaches out to touch Sarah's inert, bloody hand.
He lies on the road, cuddling her and weeping.
In the motel, Tim lies on his back in the tub.
His chin sinks to his chest.
In a hospital, medics try to resuscitate Tim.
Dan is in deep conversation with an official.
Emily's pager wakes her.
Lying on her stomach, she reaches out for the pager, then raises herself a little to look at it.
Suddenly noticing the empty space beside her in the bed, she sits up and scans about.
In an operating room, Tim's body is lifted onto a table.
A square of his chest is bare beneath a sheet.
Emily is wheeled down a hospital corridor on a gurney.
Dr. Briar comes to see her in an operating room.
Dan weeps.
A surgeon lifts Tim's heart out of his body and carefully passes it to a colleague.
Dr. Briar and her colleagues are operating on Emily.
A medic opens the door of the operating room to let in another medic who is carrying Tim's heart, which is in a stainless steel bowl.
Emily, anesthetized and wearing a theater cap, lies on the operating table.
A golden, dream like image of Emily and Tim sitting in the shade of the tree and entwining their fingers.
Emily's new heart lies still in the open cavity of her chest.
Dr. Briar looks up at the monitor, which is flat-lining.
The heart begins to beat.
Emily lies peacefully on the operating table, eyes closed.
The real Ben sits miserably in Tim's motel room, staring at a wall of newspaper cuttings about the crash.
There are also photos of the people Tim helped and an article on Ezra.
Ben sifts through envelopes, each of which has the name of a person Tim wanted to help, including Ben's.
Ben hands Emily a list of the people written on the back of a photo of Sarah.
Ben hands Emily a photo.
The photo shows Tim standing at Holly's hospital bedside.
In her garden, Emily weeps as she reads Tim's letter to her.
Glum and pensive, Emily lies in a bathtub.
Emily's head and shoulders are framed by the water in the tub.
Emily slowly submerges herself so that her ears are beneath the water.
Emily lies with her eyes closed, listening.
Wearing a delicate summer dress, Emily walks in a sunny park.
She approaches a children's choir singing in the open to an audience of adults who clap along.
Ezra is playing the piano.
Emily watches and looks moved.
When the songs ended, Ezra points the audience's standing applause towards the choir.
Ezra rises and bows, then gestures to the choir again.
Emily watches intensely through wide, gentle eyes.
She cranes her neck to keep track of Ezra as he leaves the stage and moves effortlessly towards members of the audience.
Emily walks over to Ezra as he chats to some of the children in passing.
He turns to her confidently.
He's no longer blind.
Emily shakes her head.
Her eyes begin to fill with tears and glisten.
Emily nods and blinks back tears.
Light dawns in Ezra's eyes.
He smiles gently.
Emily smiles through her tears, which roll down her cheeks.
Ezra gazes at her incredulously.
He shakes her hand.
Another big tear rolls down Emily's cheek.
Emily wraps her arms around Ezra's neck.
They stand, hugging, among the milling crowd.
Grainy footage of matches from the time.
Rough tackles.
England failed to qualify for the World Cup.
The manager of England is the most coveted job in the country.
There's only one obvious choice.
Rain soaks the muddy pitch in the empty Leeds United stadium.
Photographers' flashes light up the boardroom windows.
Burly, middle-aged Don Revie makes his way from the boardroom to a press conference, flanked by members of the Leeds board.
Don goes with a nonchalant wave.
Gaunt, grey-haired Manny Cussins, director of the board, brings his hand to his mouth as he sits uneasily before the press.
A gloomy day.
A Ford Zodiac makes its way along a moorland road.
Two boys in the back stare out through the rain-soaked windows as the handsome driver, Brian Clough, sings along to the radio.
They drive straight past the Leeds United stadium.
In the Yorkshire television studios.
Brian smirks a wry, lopsided smile.
Watching at home, a livid Don storms to the phone and dials.
Back at the Elland Road stadium, a group of boys scamper after Brian's Zodiac as it swings into the car park below the Leeds United AFC sign.
A gaggle of reporters flock around the car as craggy-faced Jimmy Gordon opens the driver's door.
Brian and sons get out.
To his boys.
He waves up at the footballers on the training field.
They scowl down at him through the chain-link fence.
Brian turns back to the press.
Brian struts into the boardroom, shakes Cussins' hand and sits at the end of the long board table.
His broad grin sets hard as the board glare at him.
He beams his toothy grin.
Six years earlier.
The draw.
Brian picks up the phone.
Outside Derby County's rundown stadium, the baseball ground.
The elderly groundskeepers eye the letters missing from the club's sign.
Brian points at the visitor's entrance.
He marches in through the tatty door.
Brian dashes down corridors to smoking cleaners.
On the pitch.
The groundsman trudges along, marking white lines.
Grubby kids gaze over the training ground from streets of terraced houses.
Brian stands beside tubby Peter Taylor, watching the team play.
Brian volleys a goal.
In his trademark red track suit, Brian sweeps the dingy corridors by the Derby dressing rooms, under flickering strip lights.
He polishes the brass plaque on the visitors door.
He steps back to admire the now-untarnished sign.
In the shower room, Brian stands in the chest-high plunge bath, scrubbing the white tiles with a coarse brush.
Now, he lays an orange on each of the neatly folded towels on the benches.
Next, he lays a heavy, glass ashtray beside each of the towels, then strolls out.
Brian eyes himself gravely as he smooths his hair in his office mirror.
He smooths his tie and carefully takes two crystal glasses from his case as Peter looks on.
Brian sets them down side-by-side, then unwraps a bottle of red wine.
Blowing dust off, he reverentially positions the bottle to the right of the glasses, then turns the label to face Peter by the door.
Jimmy ducks in.
Brian pulls his suit jacket on as he and Peter follow Jimmy out of the wood-paneled office.
They hurry out of a side door in the side of the rusty, corrugated iron stand and over to the entrance gate.
A coach is stopped down the street of terraced houses.
Brian smooths his coiffed, dark hair and straightens his tailored suit jacket as he stands with Peter and Jimmy in the entrance gateway.
Down the street, kids flock around Don and his team as they step from the coach and stroll towards the ground in their smart suits, signing autographs.
A press photographer snaps photos as the players approach.
Brian steps forward to greet them.
Don sweeps past to meet his entourage, leaving Brian standing to one side at the entrance.
Still seething, Brian watches the teams run out.
Brian eyes Don in the visitor's dugout.
Peter yells beside a glowering Brian as the Leeds players surround the ref.
The physio carries McFarland off, piggyback.
Brian grimaces introspectively.
Brian sneers at Don.
The wine stands untouched.
Brian gazes out at Don ushering his players onto their coach, patting their backs for the press.
Brian nods ruefully.
Brian jabs a finger at Peter.
The Clough family sits at a dining table in a semi-detached house in the rolling Derbyshire countryside.
Peter glances at his wife.
Brian smirks.
Barbara Clough gets up from the dining table and wanders into the hall to find it empty.
Brian speeds away from Peter's house.
Peter feeds Brian crisps as Brian drives.
Brian swigs a can of lager.
They pull up in a suburban street.
Brian and Peter swap grins as thick-set Dave Mackay opens his front door.
Dave regards them.
Derby players hit a ball, then run up and down the stands.
Sam Longson joins Brian on the terraces.
Press shots in team kit.
Dave on the training field.
Grainy black and white match footage.
Derby climbing the table.
Brian and Jimmy applaud.
Top of the table.
Champagne in the dressing room.
A party in the board room.
Having emptied a bottle of champagne into the silver cup, Brian pours it into the players' glasses.
Peter smokes a cigarillo as he embraces Brian.
They dance together while their wives and the team look on.
Dave rushes forward to turn up the sound on Don accepting a trophy on TV.
The Leeds players in track suits on the training ground near the stadium.
Brian's sons, Nigel and Simon, scribble on pads of paper at Brian's desk as Brian eyes the players from his office doorway.
Brian looks apprehensive as he watches the team warm up.
Brian keeps his wary eye fixed on the players.
Jimmy and Brian stroll towards the team milling about on the training pitch.
The Leeds players, in purple team track suits with their surnames on their backs form a semicircle facing Brian with stout redhead Bremner who dived for the penalty in the Derby Cup clash beside lanky Giles.
The players swap disgruntled looks.
Brian rounds on Bremner.
Brian nods emphatically.
Jimmy tosses a ball at Brian, who keeps it up with his feet and head then turns for goal.
He volleys it in.
Brian plays with the team.
Giles floors Brian.
Jimmy helps Brian up.
Bremner leers, laughing.
Brian listens outside the dressing room.
Brian sits beside Peter on the team bus as it pulls into the Elland Road car park.
With his team in their dressing room.
Brian and Peter embrace as they follow the teams up the tunnel.
Don is interviewed on TV.
Brian and Peter watch.
In training.
Brian and Peter watch Don and the Leeds team get off their bus.
Peter marches into the Derby home dressing room.
The Derby players tuck the white shirts of their home kit into their shorts and sit on benches as Brian strolls in.
Brian stands at one end of the dressing room with his arms folded, casting an eye over the players sat on benches lining the walls.
He strolls to the far end of the dressing room and kneels before a heavy-featured, sandy-haired lad, looking him in the eye.
The young man smiles bashfully and hangs his head, as Brian rises to his feet and looks around the other players.
His eyes meet Dave Mackay's.
They exchange a respectful, knowing nod.
Straightening his tie as he turns and walks across the dressing room, Brian sits beside a dark-haired, fresh-faced guy who's rubbing his thighs in agitation.
Brian apes a scared face, then beams at the rest of the team.
Brian nudges his shoulder against the young players.
Brian stands before the team.
A smile spreads across his face as he looks around the players.
The Derby players leap to their feet and roar, red-faced.
They run out of the dressing room, down the gloomy corridor, and up the tunnel into the daylight on the pitch.
As play gets underway, the Leeds players, in their away kit of blue shirts and yellow shorts pass the ball wide.
In his dingy office, Brian smokes as he watches the clock.
Sunlight streams in from the terraces through the narrow windows set high in the stark walls.
The clock shows five past four.
Pacing now, with his hands clasped together behind his head, a cigarette dangling between his lips, Brian looks alternately at his office floor, then at the clock.
He looks up, awestruck, as silhouettes of fans leaping to their feet in celebration crowd the frosted windows.
The clock ticks half-four.
Brian sits with his head in his hands.
He stands and once more peers up at the figures of the cheering Derby fans.
He bows his head against the wall, then paces in the light streaming through the windows, his hands on his head.
Brian puts on his jacket, straightens his tie and steps into the corridor.
Outside his office door, he smooths both hands over his hair, then strides off down the gloomy, brick-walled passage.
He stops in his tracks as he sees Jimmy and Peter turn the corner ahead.
Jimmy strolls off, leaving Peter frowning at Brian.
Peter's face softens into a grin.
Beaming, Brian runs and embraces him.
The team cheer in the dressing room.
A Telex machine.
Match footage.
Brian in TV interview.
Parkinson grins.
Derby climb the table to the top.
In interview again.
Crowds welcome the Derby team bus back with the cup.
Muhammad Ali on TV.
Crowds flock down the mile to Wembley for the charity shield.
Color TV footage from the time.
Jimmy follows Brian into the Leeds dressing room.
Brian takes a note from his blazer pocket.
The team turn grudgingly.
He grins and winks.
Bremner shoots a dour glance at Giles.
The teams come out.
Bremner scratches his balls as he eyes Brown contemptuously, standing beside the team lined up for the national anthem.
Don sings in the stands.
On the pitch, Brian remains tight-lipped.
Brian smirks wryly as he locks looks with Don, who looks away imperiously.
Bremner salutes Don in the stands, who smiles back and touches his nose smugly.
The Leeds team jig in a circle on the spot with their right arms raised to the fans.
Liverpool on the edge of the Leeds area.
Off the ball, Giles punches Keegan to the floor.
Brian shuts his eyes.
Commentators watch as Brian mutters furiously.
Emlyn Hughes lifts the shield.
Brian's patted consolingly on the shoulder.
At an FA tribunal.
The row of gray-haired men in blazers rise.
Bremner trudges out after the officials, leaving Brian sitting alone, brooding.
Brian's on the phone in his hotel suite.
Peter listens.
Brian swigs booze.
Peter's eyes rove in anguish as his brows knit in a frown.
He hangs up.
Brian is left hunched over on his hotel bed, head in hand.
By the dressing rooms.
Brian nods sagely, then leans close.
Brian walks towards the players' tunnel.
He jabs his finger.
Peter's standing by, frowning.
They watch Longson march off.
On a dark, rain-sodden pitch, Bremner, in a yellow Leeds shirt, slides down a Derby player.
Leeds players foul and head-butt their counterparts.
Brian bellows at Don.
Bremner strolls up to Brian and shakes his hand on the touchline.
Bremner smirks.
Brian and Peter are dazed in the rain as the Leeds players trudge off, gesticulating at the Derby crowd.
Longson stalks angrily down the corridor, past the away dressing room, to stand beside a hangdog Brian surveying his battered team.
Longson glares at Brian, then turns on his heel, leaving a rueful Brian to meet Peter's concerned look.
Brian addresses the press assembled in the tunnel of Juve's Comunale Stadium.
Brian jabs his finger at a camera.
Nurses wheel a gurney from an ambulance.
Brian sits by Peter's hospital bedside.
Brian smiles and looks away.
Their eyes meet and hold a loaded look for a moment, before each drops his gaze.
Brian storms into the Derby board meeting.
Longson stares at the table as he smokes a cigar, while the other directors look away from Brian's plaintive looks.
Shaking his head in disbelief, Brian wanders down to Longson, then hurls his tracksuit top on the table.
Everyone gathered in the candlelit room turns to look at Peter.
Brian crosses the room to Peter.
Brian stand beside three grinning young men before the assembled press below the Leeds United sign in front of the stadium.
Giles, Bremner and Hunter watch from the training ground.
Now, Brian passes them in the tunnel.
Brian stands with his back to the pitch in the players' tunnel.
Brian smiles bitterly as Giles points past him, towards the empty stadium at the end of the tunnel.
Brian's smile wilts as Giles turns and saunters off with the other players, who pat him on the back as they go.
Alone, Brian turns slowly and makes his way up towards the pitch, gazing at the empty stands.
Alone in his stark hotel room, Brian lies on his bed, smoking and drinking.
He's staring at the little girl playing noughts and crosses with the toy clown on the television test-card.
A woman rides a tricycle past beach huts on the seafront promenade.
Girls flock across the beach by the pier.
An elderly couple eat fish and chips.
More middle-aged folks snooze in deck chairs in the hazy sunshine.
Brian pulls up with Peter in his Ford Zodiac on the seafront.
They stroll along the seafront passing a woman, hobbling with a Zimmer frame.
Brian's eyes drift away as he frowns.
Peter points over the street to a hotel.
In the bar.
The Brighton Chairman extends his hand to shake.
Brian smiles wryly with his arms folded.
He leans forward and shakes the chairman's hand.
A crowded tourist beach by a Majorcan hotel.
Bare-chested, Brian plays football with his kids.
Peter cavorts around with them in the impromptu game.
Fat holiday-makers laze on lounges.
Brian kisses Peter's cheek playfully.
A man smears some cream over his obese folds.
Brian holds his arms aloft to celebrate scoring.
Barbara frolics in the surf with Peter and the kids.
Wearing aviator shades, Brian nods smiling.
They beckon him to join them.
His face becomes sober as he turns over to the back page of the paper to see the sport headline.
By the hotel, a waiter points Brian out to a man in a panama hat and blazer.
The middle-aged man wanders down the sandy beach carrying a briefcase towards Brian.
Brian's now lying on his back in the sun.
The man in the blazer dabs sweat from his face as he stands over Brian.
Still wearing his shades and an intrigued expression, Brian raises himself up onto his elbows, looking up at Archer.
Peter marches off along the jetty away from Brian, leaving him pacing furiously, hands on hips then on his head in despair.
A home game.
A Luton Town player in orange stripe weaves through the lead-footed Leeds midfield.
Bremner sulks beside Clough on the bench.
Behind them, Don makes his way to a seat with the directors.
Don eyes Brian gloatingly.
A Luton striker scores.
The Leeds fans cheer as Brian escorts his team down the tunnel.
Brian finds Cussins waiting.
The Leeds players trudge into their dressing room.
Cussins leaves Brian with his hands on his hips.
Brian makes to follow Bremner into the dressing room, but has the door slammed in his face.
The players now showered and in their fashionable clothes join the directors in the long, narrow lounge.
Brian traipses in last to face Cussins.
A player obliges.
Cussins eyeballs Brian, then turns to the players.
Brian wrinkles his nose with distaste as Bremner, sat beside Giles, winks at him.
Brian nods and swallows hard.
Brian's new young signings looked troubled as their manager steps into the corridor.
Jimmy finds Brian outside the door.
Manny Cussins in the board room.
Brian smarts.
He straightens his jacket and glances around the board members.
Cussins glances at the other directors.
Brian leads Nigel down the corridor.
They pass Don's photo.
Brian's in makeup for Yorkshire TV.
The presenter knocks on the door.
Brian winks and smiles wistfully.
Now, in the studio.
The floor manger leads Brian to his seat before the cameras.
Brian notices two other chairs.
Brian sits.
The tall handsome presenter leads a bullish Don through the dark studio into the lights of the set.
Don sits in the chair to Brian's left, the presenter to Brian's right.
Brian shoots a scathing look at the presenter.
Don smooths out his tie.
The floor manager points at the presenter.
Brian's grin sticks.
Brian fades to silhouette as the lights dim.
Brian nods bitterly as Don and the presenter rise from their seats and stroll away across the studio floor.
Still sat in his chair, brooding introspectively, Brian glances over at the TV crew who wander out of the cavernous studio as the lights go out.
Brian sits in the darkness on set, the switched off cameras pointing away from him.
Brian drives past Elland Road in his Blue Merc with Nigel and Simon in the back.
The lads read comics and annuals as Brian broods at the wheel.
He looks in the mirror at them.
The boys swap wide-eyed looks on the back seat.
Brian smiles as the boys stifle giggles.
The boys huddle close behind Brian, excitedly.
The chalk cliffs of the south coast.
Girls wheel over the Brighton Promenade in the sunshine.
Brian stops the car outside a large red brick house.
Peter's wandering among the shrubs and plants in his front garden.
He looks over at Brian in his car.
He stoops over a flowerbed.
His eyes fixed on Peter, Brian gets out wearing a heavy frown.
Still bent over the flowerbed, Peter glances over at Brian then carries on weeding.
Brian puts his hands in his pockets as he strolls up the drive.
Peter shoots Brian a withering look.
Peter looks down at his plants.
Then, he steps back with his hands on his hips, admiring them.
Eventually, he turns to Brian with disdain.
Peter turns back around.
Peter takes a step closer to kneeling Brian, scrutinizing him.
Peter points at Brian.
The boys exchange puzzled looks in the car.
Peter walks closer and stops.
Peter strolls towards his house, then turns back.
Brian fixes Peter with a sincere, imploring look.
Peter looks at Brian, then hangs his head and shakes it.
He rubs the finger of his clenched fists together.
Then, he raises his open hands out towards Brian.
Brian stands and walks towards his old friend.
Brian throws his arms around Peter and hugs him close.
Peter screws his eyes up and returns the embrace.
Then, he scowls.
Brian is wide eyed as he speaks into Peter's ear.
Peter blinks slowly and shakes his head.
A tender smile spreads across Brian's face.
He tightens his embrace and closes his eyes.
They step back and look at each other.
Peter thumps Brian's shoulder playfully.
Peter nods over Brian's shoulder towards the boys in the car.
Brian beckons to them.
The boys scamper to Peter.
Brian smiles as his sons hug Peter.
Peter grins at Brian.
Peter and Brian wander into the house.
Grainy color footage of Don on the training field in a tracksuit.
Actual interview footage.
Brian smirks coyly.
Match footage of goals.
Peter lifts the huge silver trophy.
The team paraded before crowds on an open-topped bus.
A smiling Brian waves as he gets on to a plane.
Peter smokes a cigar beside Brian as they sit in the dugout.
She wipes mist off her bathroom mirror and brushes her teeth.
Elsewhere in New York City, some very fashionable ladies are also getting dressed.
The model-type women put on expensive-looking designer underwear.
Andy roots through a jumbled drawer and pulls out a serviceable pair of white pants.
One of the women, a fashionable blonde, selects a jacket from her extensive walk-in wardrobe.
Another lady carefully coordinates her brown top with just the right skirt.
Then, the fashionable ladies put on their designer make up working to achieve a flawless finish.
In contrast, pretty Andy has put on a comfortable-looking mauve jumper over a white shirt and trousers, and dabs on a bit of lip gloss.
The fashionable ladies make their jewelry selections, while Andy consults her appointment book.
Andy flips through some political articles she wrote for the university newspaper.
The well-dressed ladies pull on their high-heeled shoes and boots.
Andy kisses scruffy boyfriend Nate goodbye as he sits reading in bed.
The fashionable ladies scoop up their designer phones and bags and leave their swanky uptown apartments.
Unfashionable Andy, who is slender and has long, dark hair, walks out of her downtown apartment followed by a gaggle of young schoolchildren out on a trip.
A model-type measures out a small amount of cereal and adds some nuts to her breakfast.
Andy stops at a bakery and walks down the street, unashamedly munching on an onion bagel.
The fashionable ladies flag down taxicabs and get into chauffeur-driven cars, whilst Andi heads cheerfully down into the subway in her rather shapeless brown coat and clunky black heels.
Andi makes her way down a busy city street, as smartly dressed businesspeople dash this way and that.
Skyscrapers loom overhead on either side of the street.
She arrives at a tall building housing Elias-Clark Publications and gazes up at its impressive facade.
Clutching her battered, brown leather briefcase, she takes a deep breath and walks into the marble-floored reception hall and up to the desk.
An elegant redhead is waiting.
Andy follows Emily.
Emily's BlackBerry.
Emily springs into action as a sleek, silver car pulls up outside.
Creative director Nigel leaves.
Andy checks her onion breath.
A chauffeur-driven car pulls up outside the building.
Chic, grey-haired Editor-in-Chief Miranda Priestly gets out, carrying a designer handbag and a mockup of the magazine.
Emily dashes into Miranda's office, puts a glass down on her desk, and fills it with mineral water.
Andy watches a member of the editorial staff quickly binning her breakfast, and another changing her shoes.
A woman uses a webcamming feature on her computer to touch up her makeup.
Emily arranges a pile of magazines on Miranda's desk before quickly tidying up her own.
Miranda strides through the foyer and approaches a lift.
The staff member waits for another lift.
She pulls off her designer shades.
Emily's running to meet her.
Emily fetches Andy, who's holding her resume.
Emily snatches Andy's briefcase.
Andy walks nervously into the bright, airy office, which has black-and-white framed photos on the wall.
Miranda takes in Andy's attire.
Miranda's reading a magazine.
Andy frowns and heads for the door, then turns back.
Miranda turns her attention to black-clad Nigel.
Andy hands her pass in at the reception desk on the ground floor and is heading for the doors, when Emily appears.
She beckons.
Andy is dining with Nate and two mates.
Andy is in bed when her phone goes at Andy is hurrying down the street with four coffees.
Two Women wheel a clothes rail into Miranda's office.
She comes out.
Emily is calling Andy, when she walks in.
Andy watches Emily carry the coffees into Miranda's office, then hangs up her coat and hurries to her desk, which faces Emily's.
Andy is wearing a bright blue jumper.
Emily inputs a message.
Nigel has given Andy black stilettos.
Andy hurries in.
Miranda stiffens.
Miranda's eyes travel down Andy's body, taking in her plaid skirt, black tights, and fixing on her sensible, black flat shoes.
Andy scurries back to her desk and quickly dons the black stilettos that Nigel brought her.
Emily takes over.
Miranda rolls her eyes.
Andy is hurt by the slight.
A sleek chauffeur-driven car brings Andy to the Calvin Klein showroom on Avenue.
Her mobile phone rings as she's getting out.
She crosses in heavy traffic.
Andy struggles back into the office, carrying big bags and four coffees.
Miranda waltzes in and drops her coat and bag onto Andy's desk.
Willowy, well-dressed Serena walks off with Emily.
Later, Andy goes down to the canteen.
Shaven-headed Nigel finds her helping herself to some soup.
They exchange a smile.
Andy gets a roll.
Andy gets soup on her jumper.
A gentleman is in the lift with them.
Miranda vets outfits.
A dress.
Andy chuckles at the similarity of the two blue belts.
Andy's smile fades.
At home.
Nate hands her a sandwich.
Andy is at her desk.
Dumping coat and bag.
Andrea turns with boards.
A dog.
Andy does her bidding.
Emily goes.
Andy and her father have dinner together.
She accepts the cash.
They go to the theater.
At the office.
Holding back her tears, Andy walks out of Miranda's office into the anteroom and past Emily's desk.
Andy walks through the editorial department and passes Nigel's office, which has a glass wall.
She stops by the door and looks in at Nigel, who is examining some contact sheets on an illuminated desktop.
Andy goes in and leans on the desk.
He pokes her forehead.
Her face brightens.
He reads her smile.
A huge clothes storeroom.
Made over and looking fabulous with her freshly fringed glossy hair and an elegant black jacket and trousers on, Andy strides past Serena and Emily and gets the phone.
Emily glares at Serena.
Nate leaves the restaurant he chefs in.
Nate pulls on his jacket and heads down the street, walking straight past Andy, who is leaning against a car waiting for him.
He stops and looks back, taking in her new look from top to toe.
The Chanel boots, the slinky jacket, the gold necklaces, the lipstick and the sleek hairdo.
Andy walks to the subway wearing a stylish green coat and shades, with white gloves on and a cute bag.
Another day, she walks the same boot with a black coat on, an orange hat and a different designer handbag.
Now, she emerges from the subway in a white coat to match her beat cap with yet another desirable handbag on her shoulder.
Andy runs into work across the foyer in heels and a chic black coat, her dark hair scooped up in a bun.
Now, wearing a gorgeous flowing black outfit with knee length boots and a long pendant necklace, Andy's arranging magazines on Miranda's desk when Miranda arrives.
Miranda takes in Andy's outfit and then continues her call.
Nate dough and Lily in her restaurant.
A bag for Lily.
Andy's mates giggle.
She walks out.
Andy gets out of the back of a sleek black car and makes her way to a loft in a fashionable apartment building.
She rings the bell.
Andy sashays down the hall in her black outfit with a big pendant necklace, and approaches a sophisticated looking couple.
He hands her a black portfolio.
They go to the bar.
Suave James hands her a glass.
He goes and a handsome curly-haired guy approached Andy.
Andy puts down her glass.
Andy smiles and takes her leave.
Christian watches her go.
Miranda's in her office going through James Holt's portfolio.
She's wearing a crisp black suit and her shock of grey- white hair is expertly coiffured.
In the anteroom, Emily points at Andy, who hurries into the office in a smart black mini dress with white colors and cuffs.
Miranda purses her lips at James' red dress.
Leaving the showroom.
Andy follows Miranda.
Back at the office.
The key.
Emily approaches Andy's desk.
A car drops Andy off.
Andy does so.
Andy falters in the foyer as there are three closet doors to choose from.
There are various different tables in the foyer, all with flowers on them.
Andy looks up the spiral staircase and sees the twins looking over the banister rail on an upper level.
She follows their instructions and stashes the dry cleaning in the closet on the left.
She shows the book.
They giggle as Andy creeps upstairs.
She reaches an upper floor, and comes across Miranda and her husband.
They catch sight of Andy who's trying to creep back downstairs.
Miranda glowers at Andy, who's like a rabbit trapped in the headlights.
She leaves the book on the top step, and hurries away.
Emily grabs Andy's arm, and pulls her into a side room as she arrives for work.
Emily points to Miranda's office, and Andy reluctantly goes in there.
Andy smiles nervously, and heads back to her desk.
Miranda answers her mobile.
Andy sets a tray down on Miranda's desk, and sprinkles herbs onto Miranda's steak.
Emily runs to fetch them.
Emily has Miranda's coat and bag for her as she leaves.
Andy carries the dishes into a side room, and throws them into the sink.
She calls Nate.
Andy stands on the corner for a moment, in a dark green dress and gold accessories, then runs across the busy street.
She runs around the corner and races up to the St. Regis, where a doorman in a morning suit greets her.
She finds Christian sitting at the bar.
She takes the manuscript.
At the appointed hour, she puts a hot coffee and the manuscript down on Miranda's desk.
The twins are reading them.
Miranda turns away in her swivel chair and Andy walks out with a smile.
Once Andy's gone, Miranda turns back to stare after her and snatches up the coffee.
Nate gets home to find Andy painting a ball to look like a planet.
She hugs him.
He shakes his head.
A black camisole.
He pulls her into a passionate embrace.
Nigel and his team are on a shoot by a lake in Central Park.
The models are all in animal print outfits and stylized animal masks.
There's a man with a live snake.
Andy finds Nigel vetting one of the models.
He leaves Andy thoughtful.
Miranda's in a meeting with her senior members of staff, including Nigel.
Emily has a cold.
She comes in, hands something to Miranda and goes.
Emily goes back to her desk.
Mouth shut.
Andy is on her way out of the building when her phone goes.
She's back in Miranda's office with Emily.
Andy nods.
Albums.
Nigel has a long black gown.
City lights sparkle as Andy is driven to the benefit.
Andy gets out of the car looking stunning in a chic black evening gown, with her hair swept up and adorned with white flowers.
Andy spots Nigel talking to reporters.
He spots Andy and gives her a warm smile.
She winks back and makes her way back past the press, along the red carpet and up the stairs and towards the entrance.
Emily is standing on the stairs with another couple.
She spots Andy.
Inside at the benefit, Emily and Andy follow Miranda around as she greets guests, prompting her as to who they are.
Miranda's wearing a black, off-the-shoulder gown.
Andy spots Chairman Irv Ravitz with a chic lady on his arm.
A tissue.
A man waves at Miranda and turns to Emily.
Andy steps back.
Emily looks gratefully at Andy, who smiles.
Later, Andy is hurrying out of the benefit when she meets Christian coming up the steps.
Christian heads into the benefit.
Andy is being driven home through the busy New York streets.
Andy finds Nate watching TV alone.
Andy shuts the door, puts down her bags and walks over to him, carrying a single fairy cake with a lit candle on it.
Dark-haired Nate looks morose.
He sits forward.
He stops in the doorway and turns back to look at her, shaking his head sadly.
Hanging his head, he turns and mooches off into the bedroom.
Looking glum, Andy blows out the candle on the cake.
Andy lets herself into Miranda's townhouse, carrying Miranda's dry cleaning and the book.
She's wearing a cool monochrome outfit with black trousers and pale boots and a big, floppy cap on her head.
She puts the dry cleaning into the correct closet and is about to leave the book when.
Andy's being summoned from one of the other rooms, but she can't see Miranda.
She yanks her cap off and smooths her fringe before heading in.
Miranda's in a chair in the lounge.
Andy hands it to her.
Miranda rises, sternly.
Andy looks down.
Miranda has turned her attention to the book.
Andy stands and stares at her with her big doe eyes for a moment, then leaves.
Andy strolls sadly through the city, mulling over her decision.
It's dark and the swanky shop windows she passes are all lit up.
She passes people sitting at tables outside a restaurant.
She shakes her head and moves on.
Yellow taxicabs pass her on the street as she walks past shop windows, one displaying a fashionable red coat.
Back at home, Nate wanders out of the bedroom and finds Andy looking through some of her old articles and photographs, including one of her with her parents.
She picks up another photograph.
Nate's shoulders sag and he heads back into the bedroom and turns out the light.
Andy rubs her neck, trying to ease some of the tension.
Andy is at work early.
Miranda's office is empty and so is Emily's chair.
Andy stairs across the anteroom at it, then picks up a clipboard and some papers.
Miranda comes in, unbuttoning her coat, which has a striped collar.
She stands and stares at Andy with a vaguely pleased smile.
Andy nods and holds her hand out to receive the coat, but Miranda tosses it and her handbag onto Emily's desk and marches into her office.
Andy stares at the coat, which has been slung over Emily's monitor screen and sits stiffly down in her own chair.
Miranda comes to the door.
Andy reluctantly picks up her telephone receiver and calls Emily who's running down busy streets with some big bags.
Emily is hit by a taxi and rolls onto its bonnet.
The scarves flutter around her.
Andy waits at the hospital, looking sheepish.
Later she's with Emily, who's lying in bed with a broken leg and some cuts and bruises.
A man comes in with a dinner tray.
Emily tucks into a jelly pot and some bread.
Andy stands up and grabs her clutch bag.
Andy's at a gallery show that Lily's curated.
Lily leads Doug off and Andy checks out the art, standing alone to admire the floor-to-ceiling, blown-up black-and-white photographs of street scenes.
Christian is at the opening too.
He spots Andy.
Andy closes her eyes as rugged, fair-haired Christian kisses her cheek before leaving.
Lily is seeing the kiss from across the room and walks off angrily.
Andy tries to catch up.
Nate follows Andy out.
He stares at Andy, who gazes back then glances aside.
Nate nods, then turns and walks away.
He turns back.
Nate walks off.
Swallowing her tears, Andy takes the call.
An aerial view of Paris by night.
The Eiffel Tower alive with sparkling lights.
Andy is sitting in the back of a chic, chauffeur-driven car as they travel through the Paris streets and among the Champs elysees.
She gazes out off the window, wide-eyed with excitement as they pass the city's grand buildings, shops, and hotels and the imposing Arc de Triomphe.
Miranda occasionally glances over her spectacles at the view.
Andy is sitting behind Nigel and Miranda, who are in the front row for the Valentino show.
Models in an array of stunning gowns sashay down the runway as cameras flash.
Nigel whispers in Miranda's ear.
Andy's in the second row for another show and leans forward in her seat, as the models parade up and down in flamboyant evening gowns.
Now, Andy's at the Azzaro show, where dresses in a monochrome palette are being shown.
Models and celebrities mingle backstage at the Valentino Show.
Miranda talks to Valentino.
Andy follows Miranda and Nigel as they head into another function past the press pack.
Miranda poses for photos.
Christian is close beside Andy as a TV journalist collars Nigel and Miranda.
They're photographed.
Andy hurries after Miranda.
Later, Andy enters Miranda's suite carrying some boxes.
She puts them down and is surprised to see Miranda sitting on the couch with her glasses in her hand, just staring into space.
She's wearing a dressing gown and has no makeup on.
Miranda has her hand held out for them.
Andy holds out a folder, which Miranda ungraciously accepts.
Andy's taken aback.
Andy glances down at the papers in her lap, and then looks across at Miranda with sympathy.
Miranda hands back the seating chart.
Back in her own suite, Andy has changed into a slim-fitting low cut black suit.
She studies her reflection in a big mirror and touches up the mascara on her long, black lashes.
Nigel comes in and studies the outfit she's wearing.
They raise their glasses.
Andy and Christian in an elegant restaurant.
After dinner, they stroll near the Notredam Cathedral.
She swings around a lamppost.
Christian kisses her.
He kisses her again and again.
She kisses him back, wrapping her arm around his neck.
They are surrounded by bare trees adorned with fairy lights.
There's a view of the Eiffel Tower from Christian's hotel bedroom window.
Andy wakes up in his bed alone, and puts her hand to her head with a grimace.
She rolls over and consults her watch on the bedside table.
Pulled on her clothes and is hopping around about trying to put her shoes on.
Andy goes to grab her jacket and knocks over Christian's bag.
Christian comes out of the bathroom in a towel.
Andy grabs her stuff and goes.
Walking along a modern bridge over the sand, she calls Miranda's suite.
Andy gets back to the hotel and pauses before knocking on Miranda's door.
Miranda and Irv shut the door in her face.
She's changed into a black dress with a scoop neck, a full skirt with petticoats, and wears black gloves and a silver necklace.
At the event, she paces the hallway.
Nigel steps down from the podium.
Miranda makes her way over from the table she's been sitting at.
They had gathered in a plush banqueting suite with chandeliers hanging from the ceiling.
Andy spies Christian sitting with Jacqueline.
Miranda kisses Nigel before taking her place.
James gets up and salutes his fans.
Andy and Nigel smile over at him.
Nigel's excited smile fades and he looks up at Miranda crestfallen.
Pretty Jacqueline beams delightedly.
Nigel puts on a brave face and applauds her.
Jacqueline stands.
Andy looks over at Miranda incredulously.
Up on the podium, Miranda smiles and applauds Jacqueline as Irv eyes her coolly.
Andy glances over at Christian, who looks stunned.
James preens himself smugly.
Nigel fidgets in his seat.
Later, Andy gets into the back of a smart, black executive car, which is parked outside the venue.
The car drives off down the chic Parisian street.
Andy stares out of the window.
A melancholy expression's on her face, not looking at Miranda who sits beside her.
Flashback of Irv looking at the list.
Andy turns and looks at Miranda.
Andy frowns and shakes her head.
Andy turns and looks out of the window.
The two women stare at one another.
Miranda puts on a pair of large sunglasses, smiles at Andy and steps out of the car.
A swarm of photographers are waiting hungrily outside of the entrance of a grand building.
Andy gets out of the car and watches Miranda as she makes her way through the throng.
Andy ponders for a moment, then turns and walks off in the opposite direction.
Expecting Andy to be behind her, Miranda turns back to address her.
She looks around in confusion, then sees her young assistant striding off across the road.
Looking slightly perturbed, Miranda carries on inside.
Andy walks towards an ornate green and gold fountain.
Andy throws the phone into the fountain.
With a smile on her face, Andy strolls off along the Place de la Concorde.
The Eiffel Tower, just visible in the distance.
The Manhattan and Brooklyn suspension bridges stretch across the east river, which flows through the endless sprawl of buildings that make up New York City.
A casually-dressed Andy is sitting in a coffee shop reading a newspaper.
She looks up as Nate walks in and sits down in front of her.
Andy stares down for a moment, then looks at Nate earnestly.
Nate gazes into Andy's sad eyes.
A smile flickers across his lips.
He leans back in his seat.
Nate nods.
Andy looks down wistfully.
Andy smiles.
Nate shrugs.
She looks up at him.
Nate beams at her.
Andy smiles back, then looks down coyly.
Andy gapes.
As she walks down a set of steps leading to the pavement, a smile spreads across her face.
Dressed in smart jeans, a black polo neck and a brown jacket, and still wearing a large grin, Andy walks down a busy street.
She takes a mobile phone from her bag and begins to dial.
Emily gapes in surprise, then composes herself.
Emily hangs up, looking genuinely touched.
She allows herself a brief smile, then looks over at Andy's replacement.
Out on the street, Andy's smile fades as she see Miranda leaving the building.
Miranda finishes talking on her mobile as a silver Mercedes pulls up.
As Miranda, who's wearing large Jackie O-style sunglasses, makes to get into the car, she suddenly spots Andy standing across the street.
The two women regard each other for a moment, then Andy smiles and raises her hand in a wave.
Poker-faced Miranda removes her sunglasses and gets into the car.
Andy grins, then carries on walking.
Sitting in the back seat of her car, Miranda watches Andy striding confidently down the street.
A smile slowly spreads across Miranda's face.
She looks sternly at her driver.
Miranda rolls her eyes and slides her sunglasses back on.
The Mercedes pulls out and drives away down the street, passing Andy, who flips her hair and walks on in the opposite direction.
As she crosses the wide street, Andy becomes just another New Yorker going about her business as she's swallowed up in a sea of people.
Rows of film studio buildings reflected in the shiny gold surface of a shield with the letters WB in its center.
A series of metallic Vs, one inside the other.
A brown-haired guy in his 40s, Carl, rejects a call from an unknown caller.
He stares down blankly.
He tenses.
He takes the phone out again.
He hangs up again.
He takes his phone out and fumbles.
He accidentally answers it and sighs.
He holds it to his ear.
Carl turns to the window.
Peter waves.
Carl moves his mouth.
Grumpily, Carl hangs up.
At the Bigfoot Lodge.
A ring.
They all turn to gawk.
The guy nuzzles her.
Carl eyes Rooney.
Ted and Stephanie frown at him.
He bashes into a waitress and slips.
He ends up on the floor with a tray of drinks.
He stands.
Stiff as a board, he trudges off past a crowd of staring people.
At home, Carl dons a suit jacket and studies his reflection in the mirror.
He pops a name badge into his pocket.
Then smiles at himself.
As he leaves his apartment, a small white-haired woman creeps up behind him.
She smiles.
Outside a cafe.
A guy bins a flyer.
Carl sits at his computer.
He spots a colleague springing out of his chair.
Norman hangs up.
Carl swallows.
Outside the bank, he rejects another call from an unknown caller.
He sits down on a wall.
He takes out a leaflet.
Carl frowns.
Nick leans over Carl.
Nick lobs the rock.
Nick's open-mouthed as two security guards run out of the building.
One of them takes him down.
The other one leaps on top.
Nick leaps over a wall.
Carl's in his car.
He rejects an unknown caller.
He winds up his window as a guy selling oranges approaches.
He passes the man outside the cafe.
At his desk.
Carl browses DVDs in the video store.
He sits alone on the sofa in his smart apartment.
He watches a film.
Carl frowns and pauses the film.
He goes to the door and peeps through the spyhole.
Peter hurries off.
Carl shuts his door with a worried expression.
Peter and Rooney enter Carl's flat.
Rooney goes to the fridge.
Peter heads over towards the sofa.
Peter furrows his brow and studies something.
He's contorted but stiff.
A fly lands on Carl's eye.
Carl wakes from his nightmare and sits up with a start.
He's on the couch.
He's wide-eyed and disheveled.
He stares into space miserably and swallows.
He frowns.
Thoughtfully, he gazes down at something on the table.
He examines it.
He makes his way towards the rows of seats.
He sits down.
On two screens.
Carl jumps out of his skin.
A guy walks onto the stage.
He's around and tanned with white hair.
He smiles at his adoring fans.
Even Carl smiles and claps.
Carl holds up his hand expectantly and then nods knowingly.
Everyone else claps.
He glances around.
A spotlight picks Carl out.
Carl smiles awkwardly.
The audience points at him.
Terrance slips off his shoes and sprints down the aisle.
He reaches Carl and grabs a chair.
He sits facing Carl.
Someone gives him a mic.
Nick waves.
Carl takes a sharp breath.
He presses the mic against Carl's nose.
Terrance lowers the mic and edges closer to Carl, who inches backwards.
He hits Carl with the mic.
Carl furrows his brow.
Transfixed, Carl stares at him.
Terrance stands and yanks him up.
Terrance throws Carl down.
Nick catches him.
His eyes bulging, Terrance raises his arms in the air victoriously.
He strides back down the aisle towards the stage.
Carl laughs and cries alternately.
He claps with the rest of the crowd.
Terrance stands on the stage and raises his arms.
Some of the audience stand.
Nick puts his fingers in his mouth to whistle.
Carl and Nick amble along outside the conference venue.
A guy smiles at Carl.
Carl grins and Nick heads off.
Carl frowns.
Carl and the vagrant guy get into Carl's car.
By the door.
Carl stares ahead pensively.
He takes his phone out and hands it to the guy.
Nick gives Carl the thumbs up and slams the car door shut.
The vagrant dials on Carl's phone.
They drive up a dark road into Elysian Park.
The guy's on Carl's phone.
Carl smiles wryly.
He pulls up beside some trees.
Carl takes his phone back.
His brow creased, Carl reaches into his pocket.
He smiles.
He pulls out some bank notes.
He offers the guy all his money.
The guy has to yank it out of Carl's hand.
Carl smiles and waggles his finger.
The guy jogs off and dives through a hedge at the side of the road.
Carl nods pensively, then reverses his car.
He turns the car around.
It splutters and stalls.
Carl's walking.
Carl jogs along a dark road through the park.
Carrying a jerrycan, he reaches a garage.
He glances over at the garage shop, which is closed.
He saunters over to a pump and swipes a card in it.
He takes it out and rubs it on his arm agitatedly.
He swipes again.
It asks if he wants credit.
A scooter careers down the road and turns into the garage.
Carl turns to look at the pretty dark-haired woman on the scooter.
She gets off and undoes the strap on her blue helmet that has eyes painted on it.
She looks at Carl with a suspicious frown.
She takes a photo.
She smiles.
The woman halts cheekily.
Carl smiles then turns away.
He eyes her scooter.
They tear down a road on the scooter.
Carl sits behind the woman, Allison.
He wears the helmet and clings onto her.
They weave in and out of the other traffic.
She speeds up, overtaking two vehicles.
Allison holds up her camera to take a picture.
She veers across the road onto the wrong side.
Oncoming cars swerve.
They head up a tree-lined hill.
In the park by Carl's car.
He pours petrol into his car.
He breaks into a smile.
He hands it back to her.
He gazes at her feigning surprise.
Wearing the helmet, she marches over to him.
She presses herself against him and kisses him hard on the lips.
She draws back.
He's dumbfounded.
He gazes at her as she gets back onto her scooter.
She drives off with a smile.
His eyes follow her as she goes.
He turns back slowly, smiling to himself.
He looks down.
He's holding the Polaroid of them on the scooter in his hand.
He scrutinizes the photo, nods and smiles.
His eyes dart around nervously.
He puts the petrol cap back on.
He smiles.
Nods and checks out the photo of him and Allison.
Norman punches the air.
Norman smiles wistfully.
Carl sits in front of his computer at the bank.
Three guys stare at him.
He clicks to enlarge another pop-up.
A corpulent woman heads over.
She gawks at him.
The woman beams.
Carl stamps the form with an approved stamp.
A slice has been cut from the cake.
Carl high-fives him.
Carl forces a grin.
At the Bigfoot Lodge, Carl, Peter and Rooney sit in a booth.
Carl glances at Rooney.
Carl, Peter and Rooney slam down shot glasses.
Carl spits out a lime.
Carl snorts Tabasco sauce off his hand.
Grimacing, he slams his fists on the table.
He knocks over all the glasses.
Carl plays on an arcade dance game.
The figure and arrows on the screen show Carl which moves to execute.
He stands on a platform with arrows to the right, left, back and front.
He has to move his feet to the correct place to the beat.
A crowd has gathered to watch him.
He moves quickly, hopping about its spinning around.
He's getting a perfect score.
Peter and Rooney smile and cheer.
He moves nimbly then twirls with his leg out.
People have to duck out of the way.
Finally, he collapses backwards.
Peter and Rooney catch him.
Carl snogs her.
A big burly guy approaches.
Rooney frowns.
Outside, Carl is down.
He crashes into a bin.
Peter and Rooney go to his aid.
They prop up the smiling Carl.
Carl punches a random guy in the face.
The burly guy knees him in the gut.
The burly guy is restrained.
Carl's face falls.
He looks as if he's on the verge of tears.
At home, Carl lies beside his toilet.
His legs wrapped around the toilet bowl and his head near the door.
He stirs.
He opens his eyes.
They flit from side to side.
He smiles.
Carl leaves his apartment and locks his door.
He turns to find elderly, white-haired Tillie holding a hammer.
She smiles and shrugs.
Carl puts up shelves at Tillie's.
Tillie knits while he drills.
Tillie shakes her head.
His shirt is trapped in the door.
He tugs at his shirt.
He yanks his shirt out and rolls backwards down a flight of steps.
He sits up to see a scary dog charging towards him.
The dog's chain stops it just short of Carl.
Carl is frozen in terror, as the dog snaps its jaws inches from his face.
A look of pained realization comes over him.
Tillie pushes Carl back onto her bed.
Tillie puts her false teeth into a glass.
At work, Carl looks at an invitation on his computer.
In his office Norman receives the response.
Beaming, he gawks at the screen.
Norman springs out of his chair excitedly.
He gives Carl the thumbs up through the glass wall of his office.
Carl salutes him.
He salutes back.
Carl pulls a silly face.
Norman hides behind a wall then jumps out.
Carl pretends to look away, then looks back at him sharply.
Norman turns his glasses upside down and flaps around like a bird.
Without his glasses on Norman crosses his eyes and holds his hands out.
Carl winds sticky tape around his head.
Carl tapes his nose up so it looks like a pig's snout.
Carl's face looks deformed and lumpy.
He sticks out his teeth.
Norman looks uncomfortable and retreats.
He takes out cash.
A bed is delivered.
Carl jumps on his new bed.
He's balanced a glass of wine on the corner.
It doesn't fall over.
In a guy's room, Carl learns to play guitar.
Carl takes off in a light aircraft.
An instructor is beside him.
Carl sits at a desk in a Korean class.
His classmates laugh.
The teacher gives him a withering look.
He ladles soup for homeless people.
The vagrant's on his phone.
Carl snatches a flier from the guy outside the cafe.
He pauses and checks his flier.
Inside, Carl walks up to the bar and sits.
It's the guy from outside the cafe.
The guy walks up to the barman.
On stage, a band who wears seahorses on their heads.
Carl turns to look.
Allison walks onstage.
Carl shakes his head incredulously.
Allison plays a keyboard.
She wears a spangly mini top hat.
Carl stands with his hand on his heart.
Carl grins.
Carl gazes at her.
She pouts at the crowd, then furrows her brow.
Carl sits at the bar with a bottle of beer.
Smiling, Allison sashays up beside him.
Carl sits at the bar, smiling and waiting.
She glances over and beams.
He looks down.
They walk in the middle of a dark street.
They reach her scooter.
Wrinkling her nose, she smiles.
They smile.
Carl throws himself into bed and sets an alarm clock.
He puts it on his bedside table and switches off his lamp.
He scowls at his phone, then answers it.
He switches the lamp on again.
Early morning joggers stretch in front of a large observatory with three domes.
A car races up the hill and comes to a halt.
Carl climbs out, cans of energy drinks tumbling out when he opens the door.
He removes a can stuck to his shoe.
He runs over.
He punches the air and bounds off.
He sprints down a hill.
The others jog behind.
They take snaps on their cameras.
Carl leaps onto a bench by a couple hugging.
He snaps them with his phone, then darts off again.
The group jog along a pathway on a hillside.
They find Carl collapsed on the ground, his eyes closed.
Allison squats and starts snapping Carl.
Everyone else does the same thing.
Allison and Carl stand together at the top of the hill.
Carl downs a bottle of water, then gasps in air.
He pretends to write notes.
He nods thoughtfully.
She slaps him across the arm.
Carl and Peter eat in the garden of a restaurant.
Carl downs a glass of water.
A Persian woman.
Carl picks up a basket that Peter's food was in.
Peter stands to kiss Lucy.
They sit.
Faranoush beams at her.
Lucy stares, flabbergasted.
Norman opens his front door.
They're dressed as Harry, Ron and Hermione.
The others stare.
Guests play a game of mock Quidditch.
Carl smiles.
The first Harry Potter film.
Norman gazes at the screen and waves.
Carl and Allison stand up to leave.
Carl freezes.
The party guests clap.
Norman lets them out.
Carl and Allison zoom down a dark street on Allison's scooter.
Carl sits behind her with his arms around her waist.
The scooter wobbles unsteadily.
Carl's driving.
He smiles nervously.
He eyes something on the other side of the street.
He grins.
Carl and Allison hurry towards a chain-link fence.
It has a gate which is locked.
She starts to climb over.
They walk backstage at a music venue.
It's full of equipment.
They round a corner and walk out on stage, and look at the vast Hollywood Bowl amphitheater.
Hand-in-hand, Carl and Allison wander beneath the domed archway that covers the stage.
They smile in awe.
Carl turns to Allison, who stares out at the seats, lost in thought.
He gazes at her.
She turns to him and they smile.
They look out again.
They turn towards each other.
Allison looks up at him.
Allison leans forward and plants a kiss on his lips.
She draws back and smiles impishly.
Carl leans down and kisses her passionately but tenderly.
He puts his arms around her and presses her to him.
She puts an arm on his shoulder and squeezes affectionately.
They stay locked in an embrace and sink to the floor.
They sit in the deserted amphitheater.
He eyes her gravely.
A fat security guard with a torch chases them.
Carl hands out oranges.
People queue outside his office door.
Lee's smile fades.
Norman's po-faced.
A motorbike.
He approves the loan.
Carl and Norman go into an office.
A mustachioed man stands.
They shake hands.
Wesley, Carl and Norman sit down at the table in the big office.
Carl smiles.
Norman gawks.
Frowning, Carl stares.
Norman nods.
Carl and Lucy look at bridal shower invitations.
She slowly turns and looks at him sadly.
Carl nods sympathetically.
Soo-Mi grins.
Carl holds up a clenched fist.
A guy runs in.
Carl joins the crowd.
Standing on the street, Carl stares into the distance with a steely resolve.
He bursts into the tall, red brick apartment building and runs up a central staircase.
The desperate man is standing on a ledge outside the top floor.
Carl bursts into an apartment.
Carl goes into the cluttered living room and looks around.
He leans out of an arched window and looks at the guy on the ledge.
He's a casually dressed, portly guy with thick, black hair.
He looks into the room and sees a guitar.
Carl points at the guy and goes inside.
On the street, Soo-Mi and Lucy are standing in the crowd, looking up anxiously.
Carl tunes the guitar.
Carl leans out of the window, guitar in hand.
As the crowd sings along, a fire crew arrives.
The guy edges towards the open window.
Carl grabs him by his jacket and throws him inside.
He lands on his back.
In shock, the guy holds up his hands.
Carl gets out of an airport shuttle bus.
As he walks towards the terminal building, Stephanie grabs his arm.
She's with Ted.
Carl goes.
Stephanie glances back as she walks off.
Carl walks up to Allison, who's wearing a dark blue coat with red piping.
He picks her up around her waist with one arm and carries her to a check-in desk.
The woman looks at a computer screen.
Carl frowns, perplexed.
Carl and Allison walk through the small Lincoln, Nebraska airport.
The Telephone Pioneer Museum.
At the museum is a mock-up of an early telephone switchboard.
A mannequin holds a modern mobile phone.
He holds up the real vintage phone, which is massive.
On a shooting range, Allison shoots the ground.
An instructor raises the gun barrel.
She hits the clay.
Everyone ducks as she swings round with the gun.
A uniformed band plays at the packed Nebraska Cornhuskers Memorial Stadium.
A mascot jumps up and down.
The football team, Big Red, in a red-and-white stripe, run onto the field.
In Carl's apartment, Peter, Lucy, Rooney and Lee watch the game on TV.
Jumping up and down amongst the crowd, Carl's wearing giant yellow corncobs on his head and arms.
Allison wears a massive red Stetson.
A slaughterhouse.
Carl faints.
In the country, Carl and Allison walk along a track beneath a brooding, gray sky.
He takes off his jacket and wraps it around Allison's head.
He marches her to a barn.
He removes the jacket, and she shakes her head.
He smiles broadly.
Allison falls against Carl and smiles contentedly.
They wrap their arms around each other.
Looking thoughtful, he rests his chin upon her hair.
At a check-in desk at the airport, Carl and Allison stand facing a uniformed woman with thick, fair hair.
She checks a computer screen and smiles at them.
Two serious-looking, suited men walk over.
They show ID.
Carl points at Allison and starts to smile.
An interrogation room.
Thick-set Tweed narrows his eyes.
Allison looks at Carl, disappointed.
Carl and Allison sit handcuffed.
Peter, Tweed and Multack leave the room.
Carl smiles weakly.
Carl stares at her wretchedly.
Multack walks in and unlocks Allison's handcuffs.
Allison gets up.
Without looking at him, she leaves the room.
A jet touches down in LA.
Allison marches through the busy terminal building.
Carl and Peter walk some way behind her.
He retreats.
Allison gets in a yellow cab.
Peter watches Carl run back through the terminal building.
Carl watches a film.
He calls Allison.
In a meeting, Carl sits staring at the table.
On the terrace outside her apartment, Allison stands at an easel, painting.
She checks her phone, sees it's Carl calling and puts it back on the table.
Carl takes a flying lesson.
Carl looks uninterested.
Carl stands on the edge of a bridge.
A harness around his waist and ankles is attached to a bungee rope.
Two safety guys stand by.
Carl dives off.
He free-falls hundreds of feet towards a river, then gets whipped back up by the heavy-duty elastic.
Waving his arms, Carl swings back and forth beneath the giant, curved bridge supports.
He takes out his phone.
Wes is on a golf course.
He hands his phone to a caddy.
At Norm's, Norm is having a Sparta-themed party.
Norm wears a red cape and holds a shield and spear.
Later, he sits, weeping.
Carl's beside him, looking anxious, with his hand on Norm's shoulder.
Norm's wearing a false beard and mustache.
Carl notices the mustache is slipping and sticks it back in place.
He looks down humbly.
At home, Carl checks his answer phone.
At the Bigfoot Lodge, the sign shows an ominous figure in a forest.
Carl stands outside the entrance looking pensive.
Peter and Lucy walk up.
Carl leads them inside.
Carl and Peter dance.
Janet offers a piece of cake to Lee.
Faranoush looks again.
Norm's leaning against the bar, looking morose.
Carl taps him on his left shoulder and leans round to his right.
Norm bows.
With his hand on Soo-Mi's shoulder, Norm dances around as they walk off.
Lucy's with a group of friends.
Carl catches her eye, smiles and waves.
Lucy points around the room and gives Carl a big thumbs-up.
They share a fond smile.
Sitting alone at a table, Carl makes a phone call.
Allison's at an exhibition of her photos.
She opens then closes her phone.
A woman's looking at the photo of Carl sprawled on the ground.
Allison smiles tightly, and the woman raises her eyebrows.
Peter sits next to Carl.
Peter smiles.
Rooney stands at the bar alone.
Tillie walks up and smiles at him broadly.
He looks at her warily.
Rooney has a drink.
He knocks back a shot.
He ushers her out of the bar, looking back cautiously as he goes.
Carl arrives home.
She kisses him.
He responds and kisses her for a moment, then pulls away sharply.
He looks pained.
Carl gets into an elevator and presses a button.
The doors close.
As the elevator descends, the light flickers.
Carl looks up.
The elevator stalls.
The doors open.
It's stuck below the level of the floor.
Carl clambers out and walks off along the hall, looking around cautiously.
As Carl walks across the forecourt, a black cat runs past behind him.
Carl stumbles onto a car bonnet.
He sees a guy hooking his car up to a tow truck.
The guy is Carl.
Carl runs from his hallucination.
Terrence drives away from a hotel.
Carl pops up in the back of the car, and Terrence hits the gas.
A car plows into the side of them.
Carl lies unconscious in a hospital bed with grazes on his face.
A pretty nurse dressed in blue takes his pulse.
Peter and Rooney are sitting beside the bed.
Rooney has a snack, and Peter holds a drink.
The nurse walks off, and Rooney watches her go.
Carl stirs.
Carl looks fearful.
Terrence pulls back a curtain.
Carl goes.
Peter looks at Terrence.
Wearing a hospital gown, Terrence goes.
Rooney gets into the bed and shushes Peter.
Carl heads out.
He runs to an elevator as Lee steps out.
Still in his hospital gown, Carl revs Lee's Ducati bike and puts a helmet on.
Carl pulls a wheelie and whizzes off.
Up on the back wheel, Carl crashes through a barrier and heads out of the hospital car park.
He rides up next to a UPS van.
The driver looks out and sees the Ducati's front wheel waggling about in midair.
The bike's front wheel drops down, and Carl speeds through town.
Carl weaves precariously through traffic and hops onto a pavement.
Pedestrians run for cover as he rides along.
A car pulls out ahead, and Carl pulls on the brakes so hard the back wheel flips up as he slows down.
The car passes, and Carl wheelies off.
Back on two wheels, he weaves through the traffic.
He speeds along a dual carriageway, his spotted hospital gown flapping in the breeze.
He keeps his head low and his arms bent as he rides the Ducati, which is a cross between a trail bike and a road bike.
His gown has two ties at the back above the waist.
The gown billows, revealing his bare backside.
He rides up to the domed observatory, where Allison's doing a warm-up with her jogging photographers.
Carl rides up and does a few donuts, spinning the bike's back wheel on the tarmac and turning circles.
Allison and her group stare incredulously as Carl is enveloped in a cloud of burnt-rubber smoke.
Allison's transfixed as Carl does another donut.
Taking off his helmet, he strides out of the cloud of smoke.
Heavy-browed, he walks up to Allison.
The group jog off.
Grinning, Carl runs up next to Allison.
Allison frowns.
They're at a viewpoint overlooking the city.
She smiles and looks at him.
They share a lingering kiss and wrap their arms around each other.
Reggie holds up his hand to apologize.
Carl and Allison kiss passionately.
Reggie glances at his fellow photographers.
They all aim their cameras and snap away at the couple.
The vast city spreads out beyond.
Carl reaches round and grabs his gown to make sure he's not exposing himself.
Outside the homeless shelter, Norm's with Soo-Mi, who sorts through clothes.
Norm and the vagrant guy both wear pleated trousers.
Terrence is on-stage.
Terrence stares incredulously.
His audience of believers are all completely naked.
Colorful painted lines run through captions.
On a coast road, Carl and Allison are wearing specially designed suits with roller-blade wheels on the chest, arms and legs.
The designer, Marv, is with them.
Marv drives off.
Both wearing helmets, they whiz down the road on their stomachs.
Allison leads.
Carl and Allison skate down the winding road on their bellies.
The rippling waters of Hogwarts' lake are surrounded by dark mountains.
On the far side, a white marble tomb on a tiny island.
A large marble block slides back and two supports beneath it tumble away.
Dark Lord Voldemort leans down into the tomb.
He gazes at the black Elder Wand in his hand and thrusts up his arm.
A massive force of energy shoots from the tip of the wand, illuminating the dark sky.
Hovering Dementors, with trailing, tattered black robes, encircle Hogwarts.
Severus Snape, in black tunic and gown, stands in an upper archway.
Gazes out at the mountains shrouded in mist.
Subdued students in regimented ranks, stride across the courtyard.
Snape watches them with a somber expression.
The inscription on the gravestone reads.
Harry Potter kneels at the foot of the grave, looking into a piece of broken mirror.
He sees himself reflected, then a face other than his own.
The grave stands amongst sand dunes behind a small house.
Shell cottage faces a white beach with a sea beyond.
Hermione Granger and Ron Weasley sit in the lounge of the cottage.
The Home of Ron's brother, Bill, and sister-in-law Fleur.
Luna Lovegood saunters up to a set of hanging chimes.
Bill is in the kitchen.
He glances at Fleur.
Luna looks at the chimes.
Harry strides in and faces Bill.
Griphook has pointed ears and a long beaky nose.
He sits in an armchair.
His hands clasped together.
His eyes closed.
Bill shows Harry, Hermione, and Ron into the goblin's room.
Hands still clasped, Griphook stares ahead.
His mouth firmly closed.
Harry crosses to the window, and looks out.
The goblin grips the arms of the chair.
Griphook has long filthy pointed nails.
He clasps his hands again.
He stares at Harry.
Harry looks at the sword of Gryffindor, leaning against the wall.
Griphook sits back in his chair.
The goblin takes a deep breath, and again clasps his hands together.
Griphook's eyes flick to the sword.
He points at it.
Harry looks back at the sword.
In the kitchen downstairs.
As Hermione, Ron and Harry come out of the goblin's room, they stop on the landing.
Fleur shows them into a room.
The old wand maker sits by a window.
He looks up at Harry.
He hands a curved wand to Ollivander, who examines it closely.
Harry passes him a plain, straight wand.
He raises the wand tip to his left ear.
He turns it in his fingers.
Ollivander gives the wand back to Harry.
The old man leans forward.
Ollivander looks away, and eases back a little.
Ollivander's eyes widen, and he stares solemnly at Harry.
Harry gets up.
They leave.
Hermione holds a long strand of curling, black hair.
Harry and Ron are standing by Dobby's grave when Bellatrix approaches them.
Hermione has transformed to look exactly like Bellatrix.
Reluctantly, Griphook slides the sword into her bottomless bag.
She joins Harry and Ron, who is disguised as a long-haired, bearded Death Eater.
Ron holds out his hand, palm upwards.
Hermione and Harry grasp his outstretched hand.
Harry turns to Griphook.
Griphook places his hand on the others.
They apparate in a dark and gloomy street by Gringott's Bank.
A cloaked man spots Hermione, who walks ahead of the others.
The cloaked man moves away.
Harry bends down and Griphook climbs on his back
Ron flings the invisibility cloak over them.
Standing in the imposing banking hall, Hermione glances anxiously back at Ron, then stares wide-eyed at the rows of goblin tellers ahead of them.
Hermione teeters in her unaccustomed heeled shoes.
As a goblin teller looks up, she tries to look austere as she swaggers along.
Wearing a long, black coat, Ron walks behind her, his head bowed.
Hidden under the invisibility cloak, Harry and Griphook follow.
Harry spots an armed guard.
Like Bellatrix, Hermione has a stand of long, black hair over her right eye.
She stops in front of a wizened old goblin behind a high desk.
The goblin continues to write in his ledger.
Arms folded, she regards him haughtily.
He looks down at her.
He turns and leaves his desk.
A teller looks up.
Griphook whispers to Ron.
Ron sees an armed guard slowly pacing towards them.
The old teller returns to his desk with Bogrod, a bespectacled goblin.
Under the cloak, Harry and Griphook have moved nearer the desk and stand beside Bogrod.
Harry casts a spell.
Bogrod's demeanor changes, and he smiles benignly.
Griphook is driving a cart along a twisting rail track, hurtling through dark, underground tunnels.
Harry and Ron sit on his right and Hermione on his left.
Bogrod, in his happy, mesmerized state, sits behind his fellow goblin, facing back of the track.
Traveling at incredible speed, the cart's single headlight illuminates a waterfall gushing beneath the track.
Griphook brakes desperately.
The track twists down towards the waterfall.
They pass through the cascade, and the rail-cart comes to a halt.
An alarm is activated.
They're tipped out of the cart and plummet.
They stops falling, then land safely.
All five get to their feet and look up at the cart as it trundles away.
Harry turns to Ron and Hermione.
Ron recast the spell on Bogrod, who smiles benignly.
Ron leads them in semi-darkness towards a cavern.
A huge, gray, spiky dragon lies chained on the ground.
Griphook takes something from an opened wooden crate and hands it to Ron.
The dragon rises.
It breathes fire, then cowers as Griphook shakes a bell.
Ron shakes the bell given to him by the goblin.
They ease past the dragon.
They continue along a narrow passageway and reach a door.
Griphook presses Bogrod's hand into the locking mechanism.
Bogrod grins inanely as the door opens.
The dragon belches flame as they enter the vault and close the door.
Light appears at the tip of their three wands.
The vault is filed with treasure.
Gold and silver goblets, candlesticks, jewels, and stacks of coins.
Harry walks further into the vault.
Harry moves ahead of the others.
He stops, turns his head, blinks, then stares up at something.
It's a gold cup with two handles.
Hermione dislodges a ring.
It replicates.
Other objects start to replicate.
Hermione throws it to him.
Catching it, Harry wades through the growing mass of treasure.
Up to his knees, Harry scrambles over the treasure towards the cup.
The treasure is now waist height.
Harry stretches the sword high above his head, reaching for the cup.
He disappears from sight, lost in a mountain of gold and silver treasure.
The others remain stock-still.
He stumbles.
He drops the cup.
Griphook grabs it.
Harry tosses him the sword.
He flings the cup to Hermione.
Griphook presses Bogrod's hand against the door.
Replicating treasure tumbles out thorough the open doorway.
The three are buried inside the vault.
Griphook rings the bells to keep the dragon at bay.
Harry struggles out of the vault and runs to a balustrade.
Griphook runs off, leaving the grinning Bogrod alone with the dragon.
The dragon raises its head and breathes fire, incinerating Bogrod.
Armed guards rush in, throwing explosive bursts from their wands.
She destroys the balustrade and, taking a run-up leaps through the opening onto the dragon's back.
Clinging to its spikes, she hauls herself up.
The beast belches flame.
Goblins take cover.
Ron and Harry are still by the vault.
They leap onto the dragon's back.
Her spell releases the dragon's chains.
It breathes fire and looks up towards a pinprick of light high above.
The three friends cling on desperately as the dragon climbs towards the light.
A guard shots from an approaching rail cart.
The dragon knocks the track with its head.
The cart and its passengers plummet.
All is quiet in the banking hall.
Rows of tellers pore over ledgers.
Above their heads, a chandelier starts to sway.
A teller looks up.
The dragon bursts through a grating in the floor.
Guards and goblins flee the flames.
The dragon's head hits the chandelier.
The three cling on as the dragon bursts its way through a glass dome onto the roof.
The three friends hang onto the dragon's horny spikes.
Hermione on one side, Ron and Harry on the other.
Takes flight, clumsily it buffets to rooftops and chimneypots before soaring into the air with the Thames winding far below.
The wind ruffles their hair as the dragon flies off, heading west along the river.
They soar through clouds towards it.
The dragon's outstretched wings barely move as the currents of air carry it along.
They fly low over the river.
As they plunge deep into the water, Harry sees an image of Voldemort.
The dark lord attacks a bank guard.
A finger recoils from a glowing ring.
Tom Riddle's scorched diary.
The Horcrux locket.
Voldemort spins.
Harry surfaces.
More images.
Ron destroying the locket with the Sword of Gryffindor.
The dark lord roars.
Hogwarts School.
A dark-haired woman.
A banner with the eagle of the House of Ravenclaw.
The two-handled gold cup.
Voldemort frowns, eyes staring.
Voldemort Turns uneasily.
Harry surfaces again
He swims towards the shore.
All three clamber out of the water onto a rocky outcrop.
They put on dry clothes.
Voldemort stalks amongst dead bodies in Gringotts Bank.
He speaks to his snake.
The Malfoys stand nearby.
Eyes wide with horror, Narcissa watches Voldemort and the snake.
Griphook lies dead, still clutching the Sword of Gryffindor.
It glows and slowly vanishes.
Night in snowy Hogsmeade.
Hermione, Ron, and Harry apparate nearby.
The three friends run off.
Death Eaters scour the village.
Two Death Eaters search a covered market.
They look under stalls and lift covers.
The three fugitives are crouch down, out of sight.
Hearing the call, the two Death Eaters race from the market.
The trio run up a set of narrow steps.
They reach a locked, barred gate.
Beckoned by a shadowy figure, Harry moves to a doorway and enters.
The others follow him down a staircase.
They enter a stone-walled room lit by a solitary oil lamp.
Ron looks puzzled.
Hermione and Ron see a painting on a wall.
It's a moving portrait of a thin-faced girl with long, brown hair.
Next to it, Hermione spots a mirror and sees Harry's face reflected back at her.
The bottom corner of the mirror has a piece missing.
She looks surprised.
She turns to Harry, who inspects his own piece of mirror.
It shows the back of Hermione's head.
As Harry compares his shard with the missing section of the broken mirror, a bearded man comes in.
He sets down food and drink.
Harry glares at Aberforth.
Aberforth stares at Harry, then addresses the portrait.
The girl in the portrait nods, turns, and walks away into the painting, past trees and bushes.
Hermione steps towards Harry, her eyes fixed on the painting.
She turns to Aberforth.
He nods.
Hermione turns to face Harry.
They continue staring at the painting.
Hermione screws up her eyes and peers closely.
They step back slightly.
The girl resumes her position in the portrait.
The whole frame opens like a door, revealing the entrance to a tunnel.
In the tunnel.
Neville's face is bruised and battered.
A painting with a gold frame reveals a long, dark passage with a pinprick of light in the distance.
Neville turns to the others.
He opens the gold-framed painting.
Neville steps aside, revealing Harry.
Harry sees a hoard of students in a large room strung with hammocks.
He steps down.
They take it in turn to hug him.
Neville approaches a student, who runs to a radio.
Harry shifts uncomfortably and turns to the expectant faces.
Ginny Weasley rushes into the room.
Ginny ignores Ron.
Everyone turns to Harry.
The grand staircase at Hogwarts.
Closely watched by Death Eater Amycus Carrow, lines of students march across the courtyard and tramp down the staircase towards the great hall.
Staff and students are assembled in the hall.
Severus Snape strides between the rows and stands at the front.
With Amycus Carrow and his sister, Alecto, on either side of him, Snape slowly turns to face the gathering.
Students turn to each other.
He stalks between them.
The students who met Harry, including Cho, Ginny, and Seamus, stand looking at the floor.
One student wearing a gown steps forward to stand in front of Snape.
Ron, Hermione, the Weasleys, Shacklebolt, and Remus march in.
Snape draws his wand.
Professor McGonagall pushes Harry aside and faces the headmaster.
Those at the door also raise their wands.
McGonagall fires a burst of energy.
Snape repels McGonagall's ferocious assault.
The Carrows haul, hit by the deflected energy.
Spinning, Snape twists his black cloak around himself and swirls up towards the high window.
He flies off.
Harry discards his gown.
Torches burn.
Students celebrate.
Harry sits down suddenly.
McGonagall goes to him.
The room darkens.
Ashen-faced, Harry is wide-eyed and tense.
The Students Look up apprehensively.
The sky is dark with ominous clouds.
McGonagall stares anxiously.
Harry steps towards the screaming girl.
A second girl screams.
The gray gloom vanishes.
The flaming torches in the great hall burn brightly again.
The students move away from Harry.
Ginny immediately moves protectively in front of Harry.
Hermione steps up, as do more students.
Filch, the caretaker, runs in.
Harry strides up to McGonagall.
On his way out, Harry stops.
Harry leads the way out of the hall.
Characters abandon the portraits and scuttle away.
Students rush down the stairs.
Harry fights his way up through them.
Handing Ron the Marauder's Map, Harry sets off again.
Hermione and Ron go downstairs.
Luna follows Harry.
In the courtyard, she faces the school.
Massive stone statues of warriors wielding huge weapons land on the paved terrace by the main entrance.
The stone warriors march down steps to the courtyard.
Professor Flitwick strides across the cobbled courtyard and points his wand in the air.
Professor Slughorn and Molly do the same.
Students stand beside them, staring up into the sky.
Flashes of light flow from the wands.
The clouds seem join together.
A Demetor flies past and is repelled by the ever-increasing mass as it extends to cover the school and the grounds, forming a protective shield
Inside, Harry continues making his way up a spiral staircase against the tide of students.
Luna catches up with him.
He stops and turns.
Harry spots something outside a window.
Moving towards it, he gazes out at the glowing protective shields as it slowly descends.
Side by side, they stare at the shield.
Flitwick is outside.
He too watches the shield ascend.
With torches on either side, Luna and Harry stand framed in them.
His shadow cast against a wall, Harry continues along a dark corridor, the only light coming from tall window on his right
He nears a stone doorway.
Harry sees a ghostly dark-haired woman in a gray dress hovering by a window.
She turns to him.
She becomes a ball of light and passes through Harry.
The ghostly woman stops.
Her face is somber and anxious.
Outside, the night is almost pitch black.
The lights of Hogwarts glow dimly in the distance.
Amassed army of Death Eaters stands on a rocky outcrop, looking down at the school.
They part as Voldemort followed by Bellatrix strides through the army to the edge of the cliff.
Voldemort turns to glare at Pius Thicknesse, who backs away.
The Death Eaters aim their wands in the air and loose off a volley of bolts of light.
Like shooting stars, they rain down on the protective shield.
Harry looks across at the ghostly Helena.
She moves away.
He runs around a walkway and leaps onto a low wall.
Having confronted Harry, she recedes, floating away from him.
She floats out into the walkway.
Harry follows her.
She stands with her back to him.
Stiffly, she turns to face him.
She studies his careworn face, then moves closer to him.
She floats away from him.
Helena transforms into a ball of light and speeds away.
Harry races down the spiral staircase.
Kingsley Shacklebolt is with Remus Lupin and student Dean Thomas.
Shacklebolt stares up as the Death Eaters' blots strike them.
The Weasley twins, George and Fred.
They stare up at the sky.
Hermione stands behind Ron at a door decorated with six, large, metal snakes.
The snake locks begin to move.
The heavy, circular, stone door, of the Chamber of Secrets, swings open.
The protective shield, the burning wooden ground stones at the Quidditch Pitch illuminate the dark hillside.
Illusions continue to pound against the shield.
Neville stands on a covered wooden bridge, looking out across the landscape.
He sees an army of Snatchers, lead by Scabior, racing towards the school.
Neville recoils, as two Snatchers run ahead, hit the shield, and disintegrate.
Scabior steadies his men.
Scabior stares at Neville, who is guarding the entrance up ahead.
In the Chamber of Secrets, Ron approaches the skeleton of the Basilisk.
He wrenches a fang from it's jaw.
Hermione takes the two-handled gold cup from her bottomless bag.
Ron hands her the fang.
He kneels down and places the golden cup on the ground between them.
Hermione sinks to her knees.
Hesitating, she stares at the cup.
Harry budges his way through students.
Ron raises his eyes to Hermione.
She draws back her arm and plunges the fang in to the cup.
Voldemort roars.
The cup spins across the floor.
Harry gasps and reels back.
Water bursts in to the chamber.
Hermione and Ron run from it.
Immediately the Dark Lord appears in the swelling torrent.
Voldemort breathes deeply.
Gasping, Harry leans back against a pillar.
Ron and Hermione, with the receding waters behind them, turn to each other and kiss hungrily.
They stand, as if on a bridge, with the waters on either side.
They break apart.
On the outcrop, Voldemort with Nagini coiled beside him, unleashes a powerful blast of light toward the shield from the Elder Wand.
Professor McGonagall and Ginny stare upwards, as parts of the shield start to burn.
Remus reaches out to Nymphadora.
Their fingers almost touch.
Holding the Elder Wand, Voldemort suddenly recoil.
He looks down as energy crackles through the nut-nutted wand.
He gazes at the smoldering shield, which now resembles a burning dome of flame.
Harry seems to regain his strength.
He moves with determination through the fleeing students.
The disintegrating shield fills the skies with burning debris.
Scabior catches one of the flaming embers on the tip of his wand.
Open-mouthed, he scowls at Neville, who remains on guard on the wooden bridge.
Scabior takes a very slow and tentative step forward.
He grins.
Neville backs away.
The Snatchers race behind Scabior, and make for the bridge.
They haul fire balls at Neville, who dodges them.
A spell from Neville's wand ignites charges in the joints of the bridge supports.
They start to explode.
Scabior runs faster as the bridge collapses behind him.
Ginny and the others watch as Neville sprints towards them.
A huge explosion rips the bridge apart.
They stare in horror at the gaping drop ahead of them.
A hand tosses up a wand.
Then a second hand appears.
Finally, Neville's head, as he pulls himself up.
An army of Dementors, Death Eaters, and Giants, make their way towards the school from the other side.
Flitwick backs away between ranks of the Stone Army as a Giant approaches.
Vines strip up the giant and pin him to the ground.
Death Eaters swoop down, aiming blasts of green light at the Stone Warriors.
Two bold giants swing between pronged weapons and knock people flying.
They plow through the Stone Army in pursuit of the tinny Professor Flitwick.
An explosion rips through the courtyard.
People run for cover.
Parts of the school are ablaze.
Death Eaters burst in to a tower.
Arthur Weasley fends one of them off.
Kingsley Shacklebolt suspends another in midair, then sends him flying back out of the window.
Hurrying down the stairs, Harry turns, and propels a third Death Eater.
Harry continues down the stairs.
Neville sprints off.
Ginny and Harry kiss amidst the mayhem.
Ginny runs upstairs.
Draco grubs two cronies.
He frog marches Blaise and Goyle away.
Harry runs along a corridor, where the roof is collapsing.
Avoiding the falling rubble, he stops suddenly as he reaches a black stone wall.
The entrance to the Room of Requirement.
He concentrates.
Ron studies the Marauder's Map.
Looks up from the map and stares ahead.
She's wide-eyed.
Draco sees the entrance door to the Room of Requirement.
He turns to his cronies.
As they run towards the door, it disappears.
It becomes a blank wall again.
Inside, Harry sees a cavernous store room, stacked high with furniture and junk.
He makes his way deeper in to the room, along the aisles between the stacks.
He roves around as he continues searching the vast space.
He passes books, statues, gold, and silver ornaments.
He strides at a breathtaking pace.
A winged blue Pixie watches him from high up on the top of a gold picture frame.
The Pixie flatters lower to get a closer look.
Harry stops and listens.
He turns round and gazes back the way he came.
He walks very slowly and deliberately, drawn towards a clothed table.
It's piled high with bric-a-brac.
Moving a coil silk rope aside.
Harry finds a plain wooden casket.
He pulls the casket forward, unfastens it, and opens the lid.
Inside is the diadem.
A silver tiara in the shape of a raven, with a huge blue stone in its center.
Another stone hangs from it in the shape of a tear.
Blaise glances across at Goyle.
The spells collide.
The diadem is thrown in to the air.
Hermione smiles.
Ron races after the three students, as Harry starts to climb a mountain of furniture to reach the diadem.
Hermione follows him.
Harry finds a blue Pixie in the junk, and tosses it aside.
More Pixies fly out of the mountain of furniture.
Harry climbs frantically.
Hermione is beside him.
He sees the diadem wedged in the sofa, and wrenches it out.
They clamber back down to the floor.
They look down one of the aisles.
The entrance to the aisle is glowing.
A huge wave of flames surges towards them.
It unites with a second wave, and pursues Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
Harry knocks over furniture to slow it down.
Harry looks back.
The furniture is consumed by the raging inferno.
The flames take the form of a fiery winged dragon.
Goyle tries to extinguish the flames from the tip of his burning wand.
Draco and Blaise back away from the fiery dragon.
Goyle tosses his burning wand in to the fire.
Hermione and Ron sprint ahead of the flames.
In a different aisle, Harry is pursued by a flaming serpent.
Terrified, Draco and his cronies begin scrambling up a high stack of furniture.
Reunited, Harry, Hermione and Ron, see flames ahead of them.
They turn.
They are surrounded.
Harry magics a protective shield.
Ron falls back against some broomsticks and throws them to his friends.
They sow upwards.
Goyle climbs after Draco and Blaise.
Dislodging a chair, Goyle falls backwards in to the raging inferno below.
Draco and Blaise watch him fall.
Ron turns to Harry.
Losing their grip, Draco and Blaise fall.
They cling to a carpet by their fingertips.
Harry looks round.
They swing their brooms round.
Harry flies past, just missing Draco's outstretched hand.
They try another pass.
Harry grabs Draco and hauls him on to the broomstick.
Ron grabs Blaise.
Hermione leads the way, as they swerve to avoid tumbling, burning furniture.
Hermione aims her wand at the flames up ahead.
She clears a path.
They make it out through the doors and fall off the broomsticks.
Draco runs for it.
Harry sees the diadem lying on the ground.
Hermione tosses him a Basilisk's Fang.
He sinks it in to the diadem.
Black smoke rises from it.
Ron kicks the diadem back in to the burning room.
Three fiery images of Voldemort appear, surging towards them.
As they back away, the doors slam shut.
Gasping, Harry leans against a pillar.
Nagini twists in to a coil.
Voldemort falters.
Harry shivers in the light.
Voldemort turns in the dark, his face sweaty and taught.
Harry grimaces.
Voldemort faces his army.
A group of Death Eaters steps forward, led by Pius Thicknesse.
The spell kills Thicknesse.
Voldemort glances at the snake.
They dis-apparate.
Harry continues to shiver.
Disheveled and dirty, Hermione and Ron approach Herry
Hermione turns anxiously, to Ron.
He crouches down, beside Harry.
Harry looks worried.
Hermione squats down.
Harry closes his eyes, and takes a deep breath.
A boat house with a small boat tied up.
His jaw tense.
Harry breathes through his mouth.
Nagini is curled up in the boat house.
Lucius Malfoy is also there, with Voldemort, who examines the skin on his own forearm.
Harry opens his eyes.
The others stare at him, anxiously.
The Death Eaters sweep over the school.
A student flies in on a broomstick.
A giant swings a scythe.
And the others do battle on the stairs.
Hermione, from running out through a door.
A bolt, just misses her.
Harry beats on a door, and shoots a Death Eater.
Giant with the two pronged weapons spots the trio, and run after them.
They hide inside the huge bell, which lies on its side.
The giant's weapon, strikes the bell.
Only to retreat as colossal spiders appear scrambling over the rubble.
Hermione runs between the giants.
They fend of attacks, with their wands and reach a quieter area.
They stop when they spot a Death Eater leaning over a girl's body.
Knowing, the werewolf glances up.
Hermione casts a spell knocking Fenrir Greyback through a window.
They run through a closed-end walkway.
The giants keeps apace.
He smashes the walls.
They raced at the front of the school and see Dementors flying towards them.
Suddenly, a shimmering barrier is thrown.
They turn and see, Aberforth Dumbledore.
Holding a wand in his outstretched hand.
As Aberforth, and those with him turn back to continue the fight.
The trio sprints away.
They run out, onto a raised walkway and down steps towards the lights of the boat house.
Snape's with Voldemort.
Voldemort stares at him.
Snape perfects a smile.
He circles Snape.
Snape's eyes are fixed on Voldemort.
A slicing move with the Elder Wand.
Snape falls against a glass paneled wall.
Harry is on the other side.
Mouth agape, the snake lunges repeatedly at Snape, thumping him against the lead paned glass, which shakes, but doesn't give way.
Harry and the others, grabbed helplessly outside.
Snape's bloody hand slides down a window and falls limply to the floor.
Harry and the others enter the boat house.
Snape is still alive.
His lower jaw trembles.
Harry moves towards him and kneels down beside him.
Harry leans forward to staunch a wound on Snape's neck.
The dying Snape turns his head to look at Harry.
Harry gazes deeply into his eyes.
A tear rolls down Snape's cheek.
Hermione rummages in her bag and pulls out a small phial.
Stemming the flow of blood from Snape's neck, with one hand, Harry holds the phial to Snape's cheek.
Catches his tears in it.
Harry removes the phial from Snape's cheek.
Harry grips the phial.
Snape studies Harry's face.
Harry's lips tremble.
Snape's eyes glaze over.
His head lolls to one side.
Hermione glances briefly at Ron.
Then, looks down at the floor.
Harry stares at the dead Snape.
The surface of the water starts to ripple.
The building trembles.
Harry steadies himself against the glass wall.
Ron holds onto the door.
Hermione clasps her hands to her ears.
Fred Weasley is injured.
Distressed, Hermione and Ron stand a little way behind Harry.
It's still dark.
Pockets of fire burn throughout the school and grounds as the three friends make their way back up the path, to the courtyard.
Ron pushes open the doors of the Great Hall.
The three are confronted by piles of rubble.
Further in, they see students and staff.
Two students carry someone out on a stretcher.
Ron spots something and hurries forward.
Hermione follows.
Harry stands frozen in the doorway.
Slughorn is tending to the wounded Filch.
He turns.
Harry passes a long line of people, being treated.
Professor Trelawney and Padma Patil pull a blanket up over a dead body.
Harry sees the Weasleys up ahead.
Weeping, George clings to his father and hugs Ron, desperately.
Fleur comforts Bill.
Distraught, Molly kneels beside Fred's body.
Stroking his hair.
Ron joins her, sobbing helplessly.
Hermione stands at a distance.
Harry watches the grieving family.
Harry glances to his left, and sees the bodies of Nymphadora and Remus, lying side by side on stretchers.
Remus' little finger rests on hers.
Professor McGonagall limps towards Harry.
Without seeing her, Harry turns and strides out of the Great Hall.
He enters Dumbledore's old office which is undamaged.
As he steps further in, covered doors to his right open of their own accord.
A stone pedestal slides out.
Harry crosses to the pedestal.
Lifts out a shallow silver basin.
He gently spins it through the air.
It floats towards the desk at the far side of the room.
He follows the spinning basin, the Pensieve, to the desk, where it lands, lightly.
Holding the phial containing Snape's tears, Harry removes the stopper.
Empties the contents into the basin.
He sees misty black swirls appear in the Pensieve.
Harry sinks his face into the bowl.
The swirling black clears to reveal a meadow.
Two young girls stand, facing each other.
It's his mother, Lily and her sister, Petunia.
Lily opens her palm to reveal a daisy growing in it.
An equally young Severus Snape emerges from a large tree trunk.
Petunia runs off.
Snape bends down and picks a plant with two leaves, which flutter like wings.
He guides it to Lily.
The red-haired Lily smiles at the boy Severus.
He glances at her.
Then, they both look up at the Willow tree above them.
The wind rustles the branches and the leaves fall flying like tiny birds.
The fluttering leaves skim over the water.
The image changes.
Lily wears the Sorting Hat.
She glances at Severus as she walks down the hall.
At the dining table, another boy sits beside her.
Pale-faced Severus looks at her, doe-eyed.
James smiles at Lily, who gazes back at him.
Lily and James, kiss and dance.
Voldemort kills Lily.
An image of Wormtail.
Snape's face softens.
Dumbledore's blackened hand.
Draco and the vanishing cabinet.
The night of Dumbledore's death, which Harry witnessed on the Astronomy tower.
Images of Voldemort, and Harry, restless in his sleep.
The night of Lily's death.
Snape enters the bedroom in the house in Godric's Hollow and finds her dead, beside Harry's cot.
Snape is overcome with grief.
He gazes at her lying lifeless on the floor.
There are tears in baby Harry's eyes.
A raw, jagged scar in his forehead.
Teenage Harry peers through a doorway.
Snape raises his wand, and completes two circles, in the air.
Creating white wisps of cloud.
They gather to form a Patronus in the shape of a beautiful silver doe.
It leaps out through a window.
Longingly, Snape watches it leave.
Dumbledore spins around, mouth agape.
Snape rocks Lily's lifeless body in his arms.
Snape's face is somber.
In the forest, Harry sees the doe approach.
The black swirls and the Pensieve return.
Harry lifts his head out of the bowl.
His eyes are wide and anxious.
Dazed, he slowly backs away, holding his hand to his heart.
Harry sits down on a step.
His face is unshaven and dirty.
He stares ahead blankly.
He sits motionless.
Harry walks downstairs along pathways cleared amongst the rubble.
He turns on a landing, and sees Hermione and Ron sitting together on a step, further down.
He pauses, stares at them, and descends.
They start to follow him.
Hermione holds Ron's arm.
Hermione fights back tears.
She rushes forward and flings her arms around his neck.
Over her shoulders, Harry glances at Ron, who lowers his gaze for a moment.
Hermione unwraps her arms from around Harry.
They separate.
Harry takes his leave and Ron moves over to Hermione.
Side by side, they watch as Harry slowly makes his way down the stone staircase.
Outside, Harry walks slowly across the deserted courtyard.
The remnants of flickering fires cast his shadow before him.
Harry enter The Forbidden Forest.
Treading carefully, he stops by a tree.
He turns and checks behind him.
He turns back, and lifts up the golden snitch bequeathed to him, by Dumbledore.
The writing on it appears.
Harry studies it.
He lifts the golden snitch to his mouth, and presses it to his lips.
The outer casing opens.
The inner casing revolves to create an opening.
Inside, a polished octagonal stone.
On one surface, a circle is inscribed inside a triangle down the middle of which, one is a line.
The stone floats out of the snitch.
Harry places the palm of his right hand, under the floating stone.
He carefully clenches his fist around it.
His eyes are closed.
Harry slowly opens them, and stares ahead.
In front of him, stand his parents, with Sirius and Remus.
Lily stretches out her hand.
Harry goes to take it.
But, his hand passes right through hers.
They gaze at each other.
Lily lowers her hand.
Lily smiles.
Harry turns to Sirius and takes a few paces forward.
Harry Nods, his father, James.
Harry turns and gazes at his mother, then moves towards her.
He looks across at his father.
Sirius points at Harry's heart.
Once again, Harry's gaze lights upon his mother.
Harry unclenches his fist.
The Resurrection Stone falls gently onto the forest floor.
Voldemort stands in a clearing in the forest.
Voldemort opens his eyes and glares at the gaunt-faced Death Eater.
Bellatrix Lestrange walks up behind Voldemort, who takes a few paces forward.
He turns around.
Bellatrix lowers her head reverentially as he passes her, the Elder Wand clasped in his right hand.
He stops and half turns his head.
Bellatrix peers through the gloom and sees Harry coming into the clearing.
Voldemort flexes his neck and looks back over his shoulder.
He turns to face Harry.
Hagrid sees him.
Voldemort stares at the teenager who stands unwavering in front of him.
Nagini slithers past Hagrid towards Voldemort, who steadies himself and raises his wand.
Harry stands, unflinching.
Harry closes his eyes.
A stream of green light flashes from the Elder Wand and hits Harry full on.
Bright white light.
Harry comes too.
He's clean shaven, unbruised, and without his spectacles.
He stands, silhouetted against a completely white background.
Behind him in the whiteness there's a small bench.
He walks over to it and bends down to peer underneath the bench.
He recoils when he sees a tiny, skeletal, red, raw naked figure curled up in a fetal position.
Dumbledore steps towards him.
Dumbledore wears a silvery white robe in the vista of white.
Harry looks around.
He glances back at the fetal figure.
They stroll along the platform and sit down on a bench.
Dumbledore gets to his feet.
Harry glances back the way they came.
Dumbledore is a little way beyond Harry with his back to him.
Harry rises.
Dumbledore spins around.
Dumbledore smiles, raises his eyebrows, nods, then backs away.
The old man turns around again.
Dumbledore has vanished into the whiteness.
Voldemort lies on the ground in the forest.
He pushes Bellatrix aside.
He sees Harry lying motionless.
Narcissa Malfoy strides towards the body.
Bellatrix stares.
Narcissa glances back, then leans down.
She checks his pulse.
Wide-eyed, she looks down.
Nods imperceptibly.
Narcissa remains crouched for a moment.
Hagrid watches keenly.
Narcissa rises.
She turns to face Voldemort, a solemn expression on her face.
A lone figure staggers over rubble in the courtyard.
It's Neville, who bends down to pick up the Sorting Hat.
He dusts it off, holds it upside down and looks into it.
Reflects on his face.
He looks up to see in the distance a slow procession of people.
He heads the procession as it trudges towards the school
oldemort Moves aside a giant's body which falls from the bridge.
Al large army of death eaters Troop across the bridge.
Neville Still clutching the Sorting Hat.
Slithers at Voldemort's side into the courtyard.
Arthur pulls Ginny back.
Horrified, Ron and Hermione stand open-mouthed.
Voldemort turns to his Death Eaters.
Lucius calls out.
All eyes turn to his son, Draco.
Lucius stretches out his hand, purses his lips and sets off towards his parents.
McGonagall watches.
The students watch, grim-faced.
Draco joins his parents.
Narcissa puts her arm around him and leads him into the crowd of Death Eaters.
Neville shuffles forward.
Voldemort's face twitches.
He flexes the bony fingers of his left hand.
Neville glares at Seamus.
His hand's on his heart.
Neville stares defiantly at Voldemort.
As he draws the sword from the Sorting Hat, Harry leaps from Hagrid's arms.
His spell bounces off Nagini.
He runs for cover.
Voldemort uses his wand to shoot fire at Harry.
Several Death Eaters make their escape.
The students run into the school.
Shacklebolt deflects the attackers.
A flash Hits the Sword of Gryffindor, catapulting Neville backwards
The Malfoys make their escape back across the bridge.
Harry is alone, clutching his wand.
Walking backwards, he turns sharply.
Hearing movement, he spins, then again he fires, hitting a door frame.
Three bodies lie on the ground.
He runs as Voldemort apparates at the main staircase.
Harry hides behind a wall clutching a Basilisk fang.
He shows himself as Voldemort climbs the main staircase.
They fend off each other's energy blasts like sword fight.
He moves towards Harry, Nagini behind him.
Voldemort disappears, and apparate above Harry on the stairs.
They lock energy blasts.
Harry is forced backwards as Nagini slithers up the stairs towards him.
It deflects a blast onto the ceiling, bringing stone beams down onto the stair.
He steadies himself, the Basilisk fang in his hand.
Voldemort spots it and fires at Harry, who falls onto a lower staircase.
He drops the fang.
Voldemort destroys it.
Harry disappears from Voldemort's sight.
Dark Lord dis-apparates.
Nagini slithers across a landing.
Hit by a stone, the snake turns and looks over the edge of the stairs.
On a landing below, Hermione stands alone.
She throws another stone as Nagini descends.
The unconscious Neville comes too.
He sits up woozily, oblivious to the mayhem of battle around him
A burning body floats past him.
He turns his head.
On the ground behind him, he sees the Sword of Gryffindor.
Voldemort lands and takes aim.
The walkway collapses, and Harry drops to the floor below.
As he scrabbles away, strips of Voldemort's black cloak twist round his wrists and neck, restraining him.
Voldemort reins him in.
Nagini advances on Hermione, who retreats, a basilisk fang in one hand.
Also wielding a fang, Ron creeps up the stairs towards the snake, who turns on him.
Ron escapes, but drops the fang.
The snake rears up between him and Hermione.
In another part of the school, Bellatrix and Ginny are dueling it out.
Molly takes Ginny's place.
On a narrow platform, they hurl energy blasts at each other.
Bellatrix seemingly has the better of Molly.
Molly advances wildly, and strikes Bellatrix several times.
Mouth agape, the stunned Death Eater raises her hands in the air.
Molly wields her wand once more.
Bellatrix explodes into a myriad of tiny black fragments.
Molly grins.
On the walkway, Voldemort uses his physical strength against Harry, slapping and kicking him.
Harry scuttles backwards away from him.
High on the ramparts, Harry flings his arms around Voldemort's neck, and clinging onto him, jumps off the edge.
They plummet from the heights, Voldemort trying to break free.
The train of black smoke is sawed away, crashing through charred roof timbers.
Struggling for supremacy, they claw at each other's faces as they zoom above the school.
Harry seems to split Voldemort's head in two, revealing only the black smoke, as they land in the courtyard and roll away from each other across the cobbles.
They lie on the ground, some distance apart.
Energy spent, each of them crawls towards his own wand.
Voldemort reaches the Elder Wand, just before Harry reaches his.
On their knees, they fire them at each other.
A burst of green energy from the Elder Wand is met by a burst of red from Harry, resulting in a bright white ball of light.
Inside, Nagini chases Hermione and Ron downstairs.
Inside, Ron and Hermione fall, and Nagini raises her head, mouth open.
Neville swings the sword of Gryffindor.
A cloud of black smoke rises, craddles Hermione in the rubble.
Power fades in the Elder Wand.
In the courtyard, Voldemort reels.
Harry turns to face him.
The Dark Lord's face fills with fury.
Red and green blasts meet again in a brilliant white and orange glow.
Harry Utilized, presses forward.
Voldemort is forced back, as the energy from the Elder Wand dissipates and dies.
Harry flicks his wand, and the Elder Wand cartwheels through the air across the courtyard.
Voldemort begins to fall forwards, as pieces of his skull break away.
His mouth gaping in horror, he looks up as his body and clothes disintegrate into thousands of tiny pieces which float upwards.
The morning sun shimmers through the mountains and Voldemort, as they drift harmlessly upwards, like ashes from a paper fire.
Inside, exhausted students sit on the stairs.
Neville still holds the sword of Gryffindor.
He smiles, as Luna sits down coyly beside him.
Holding a mug, Harry wanders aimlessly through the Great Hall, congealed blood under his right nostril and bottom lip.
He smiles when he sees the Weasley family together.
He walks past chattering students.
Cho Chang gives him a weak smile.
Aberforth chats to Dean and Seamus.
Harry stops in front of Hagrid.
The huge giant hugs Harry, then studies him.
Harry grins, as Hagrid turns and walks away.
Filch makes a vain attempt to sweep up a mountain of rubble.
Hermione and Ron walk into the Hall.
Harry smiles.
He notices they are holding hands.
Hermione glances down, coyly.
Outside in brilliant sunshine, the three friends stroll aimlessly along the ruined bridge, with its broken balustrades.
Harry steps up onto a broken stone support and looks out.
He nods to himself.
In his right hand, he holds the Elder Wand.
Harry toys with it.
Harry studies the wand closely.
He holds it horizontally in both hands.
Hermione glances round at Ron, and they exchange a look.
Harry snaps the wand in two.
He flings both parts off the bridge, into the chasm below.
Once again he nods to himself, then turns to the others, before jumping down onto the bridge.
He walks away from them.
Hermione and Ron turn to watch him.
He glances back at them.
Hermione strides up to Harry and takes his hand.
She looks at him admiringly.
Ron follows her and stands on her other side.
She looks down and takes Ron's hand.
The ruined school behind them, they stand on the rubble- strewn bridge and gaze ahead.
St. Pancras Hotel, a grand building with a clock tower.
Inside nearby King's Cross Station, a dark-haired boy of 11, wearing a striped shirt, wheels a trolley piled with luggage and an animal cage along a platform.
A red-haired girl sits on the trolley of an older dark- haired boy walking beside him.
The trolley stops, and the girl jumps off.
The older boy runs, pushing the trolley at speed into a brick pillar between the platforms.
He and the trolley disappear.
The first boy looks nervous.
Harry walks up to him and rests a hand on his shoulder.
The boy nods, and the two of them push the trolley into the pillar.
They emerge on the other side, onto Platform 9 3/4, where a steam engine, the Hogwarts Express, sits waiting.
Ginny and the red-haired girl, Lily, follow them.
They see Draco Malfoy with his wife, Astoria, and son, Scorpius.
In their House colors of scarlet and gold, members of the Gryffindor Quidditch team board the train.
The younger Potter has a ferret in the cage.
Little sister Lily chases a paper bird flying up the platform.
Ron and Hermione fuss over their daughter, Rose.
Ron has an arm round their small son, Hugo.
They turn to see the Potters.
Young Potter hangs back, then bends down to tie his shoelace.
Ginny and Harry exchange a look, before Harry returns to their son.
He crouches down, beside him.
Harry hugs Albus tightly.
On the train, Albus ducks to avoid a Whiz-bang, and enters a compartment.
He sits by the window, next to his elder brother, James and, opposite his cousin, Rose.
The chocolate frog crawling up the window, leaps into Rose's hand.
On the platform, Hermione puts a hand to her mouth, and smiles.
The children wave to their parents and siblings as the train steams out of Platform 9 3/The Weasleys and the Potters stand together, watching.
Excited children wave out of the windows.
Hermione sighs deeply.
Ron, Hermione, and Harry give a nostalgic smile as the train leaves, for Hogwarts.
Stars drift slowly in the blackness of space.
A moon glows silver in the darkness.
Seen from the mountainous surface of the Earth.
Letters form around the moon.
A circle of reflected sunlight and the Earth form the two Os.
In 1928, a blizzard lashes the Karakoram mountains in India.
In a tent, a candle glows in a lantern and a cup of snow is placed on a gas burner.
Climbing spikes are sharpened.
Wind tears at the canvas walls of the tent.
A light shines outside, then goes dark.
A bearded climber looks puzzled.
He emerges from the tent in thick furs with a climbing ax and a rope wrapped around him.
He pulls on goggles to protect his eyes.
Beams of light radiate skywards from behind a rocky ridge.
The climber carefully ascends a snowy slope.
The climber inches up a near vertical cliff.
He plunges his ice ax into the rock and hauls himself up over the edge of the rock face.
He stands slowly upright.
He moves forward as the wind howls around him.
He moves on, steadying himself with the ice ax.
The climber raises his goggles, and stares at a glowing ball embedded in the snowy rock.
Lights pulse inside the orb as he approaches.
He closes on the object, which is about feet high.
Its surface is crystalline, with shadows and lights swirling inside.
He reaches out a laser mutant hand on the orb.
He slowly runs his hand over the surface, eyes narrowed above his snow crusted dark beard.
He raises the eye axe.
Light shines out as he breaks the crystalline crust.
He squints at the intensity, the swirling brilliance within.
He's enveloped in a brilliant light of overwhelming intensity.
The eye sac lies on the snow.
The climber lies next to it, his eyes closed.
He awakens and rises slowly.
He seats up and looks around.
There is a spherical hole in the snowy rock face, but the orb is gone.
The climber looks at this right hand.
The mitten has a hole in it.
He removes it, revealing a round coin-sized scar on the back of his hand.
He frowns and checks his palm, too.
He seats on the snow-covered rocky ground, and looks skywards through the swirling snow.
Object seen through an electron microscope, appear on a screen.
The tutor is slim, with dark hair tied in a pony tail.
She smiles hesitantly.
Cars stream across an arched iron bridge over a river.
The tutor drives a small silver hatchback.
A computer game character has a sword across his back.
Jacob has got long dark curly hair.
The tutor, his guardian, is white.
Jacob is black.
She crosses to the bed where he's concentrating on the game, and sits beside him.
She spots a razor and a shaving brush.
He looks at her defiantly.
She sighs and, carrying a washing basket, runs downstairs.
Red and blue lights flash outside, as she crosses to the front door.
A blonde woman in a blue top is standing among the group of police officers.
Helen looks shocked.
Motorcycle outriders prepare to escort the waiting car.
A stern-faced woman with dark hair sits in the front seat.
The blonde woman puts her arms protectively around the bemused Jacob.
The convoy of two cars and four motorcycles pulls away.
Lights flashing, they speed down rain-soaked streets.
He points to the road ahead.
Beyond the outliners their side of the highway is empty.
She stares at the expressionless agent who stares straight ahead ignoring her.
More vehicles join the convoy rolling down the empty night- time highway.
Military vehicles and personnel maneuver as gates open to admit them.
A Chinook helicopter stands outside a large hanger.
The convoy pulls up at an aircraft.
It's loaded rack down.
The agent ushers the stunned Helen towards the helicopter.
Inside, it's packed with soldiers and some civilians.
Helen finds a space and sits down nervously.
She looks across at a man with a dark, bushy beard.
The twin rotor helicopter lifts off into the dark night sky.
Floodlights illuminate a sports field teaming with equipment and personnel.
The chopper lands mid-field.
A soldier carries a heavy machine gun on his shoulder.
As police cars escort more vehicles through the military throne.
Soldiers push racks of protective clothing along a walkway.
A NASA space agency logo adorns the screen in a large lecture theater.
It's on a collision course with the Earth.
Graphics show impact location Manhattan.
Helen stares.
The screen shows one hour minutes seconds.
The time is counting down.
She tentatively opens the toilet cubicle door.
She looks nervously at the woman in military uniform and nods.
Choppers hurddle towards the bright lights of Manhattan.
Helen looks shocked and stares out of the window of the chopper at the city lights.
Helen and Yusef hold hands as the scientists brace themselves.
Helen opens her eyes.
A bright ball of light is moving through the dark sky above the illuminated city.
It passes behind the towering Empire State building.
It illuminates the bell gothic fasade of Saint Patrick's Cathedral and moves with swirling brilliance towards Central Park.
Trees cast eerie shadows across the grass.
As people gather and stare up in horror.
As Helen stares out of the chopper window as the object sinks towards the ground.
Powerful blasts of energy slows decent, generating clouds of billowing vapor.
The watching crowds are silhouetting in its intense light.
The draft from the object's descent causes a tsunami of wind and vapor.
It blasts out raising clouds of leaves and knocking people off their feet.
A child's buggy is blown away.
The park bench is ripped from its mountings.
An Apache attack helicopter heads into the cloud.
The scientist chopper lands in a park.
Soldiers file out, weapons raised torches blazing.
The scientists follow wearing hazmat protective suits.
The glass fronted helmets covering their heads.
They moved cautiously through the trees towards the glowing vapor shrouded object.
Torches mounted on rifles cut shafts of light through the dense gloom.
Helen advances with the others through the mist.
The object casts in eerie green glow in the haze.
She stands still concentrating.
Lights swirl in the fog cutting brightly through the dissipating mists.
The gathered crowds stare up at the pulsating sphere which is hundreds of feet high.
Hellen gapes with her mouth open behind her visor.
An intense beam of white light sweeps across the ground.
She looks around in alarm as the military arrive in Hummers with heavy machine guns.
Police vehicles draw up in convoy.
The soldiers fan out to firing positions.
A soldier arms his .caliber heavy machine gun and points it at the sphere.
Flood lights illuminate the site and police snipers take positions overlooking the park.
The Apache circles the sphere as lights blaze out from the interior then concentrate at the base of the towering object.
The power is so intense Helen has to look away and raises an arm to shield her eyes.
Police and soldiers stand tensely with their weapons raised.
A figure moves in the white blaze of light.
Helen moves towards the hazy figure.
As the soldiers prepare to fire, Helen keeps moving slowly forwards.
She and the figure approach one another near the base of the sphere.
She hesitates.
The figure holds out a human-like hand.
Helen goes to take it.
Red blood sprays Helen's visor.
The figure falls into Helen's arms.
She looks down at the humanoid shape with a featureless face.
Personnel hurry to help.
More lights blaze within the sphere, and everybody looks up, staring.
A humanoid robot some feet high emerges from the sphere.
A light shines out from an eye slit in its head.
Every weapon becomes inoperable and all the lights go out.
People cringe and fall to the ground in pain a power by the noise emitted by the robot.
It strides forward and looms over Helen, who's still holding the wounded visitor.
Its head down towards her, and stretches out a vast hand.
Withdraws its hand, raises its head and stands with its arms by its sides.
The light in the eye slit goes out.
All the lights, power and weapons systems are restored.
Stunned people pick themselves up off the ground.
The vast metallic-skinned robot stands immobile, the sphere swirling in light and vapor behind it.
The visitor's body is rushed to a medical facility.
It's on a covered gurney.
Helen is with it.
A sarcophagus-like gurney is wheeled to a prefab hut in a hanger.
The protective cover is unsealed.
Mike looks baffled.
She glances at Mike.
His scalpel cuts into the patient's gray, gelatinous skin.
The gray skin is coming apart as the surgeon drops the bullet into a sample tube.
Helen slowly shakes her head.
The surgeon wearing a suit which even covers his feet drops lumbs of blubbery flesh into a basin.
On the operating table the naked slime covered body of a man curles up into a fetal position.
Mike and Helen stare in disbelief.
The patient lies under a protective tent attended by a technician.
Helen enters the room.
She descends three steps from the gallery area where she was watching and cautiously approaches the tent.
She peers in and sees the man's eyes fluttering.
Patient is thrashing around inside the tent.
Mike comes in and checks a monitor.
The Secretary's chopper touches down at Fort Linwood.
The being is lying on a gurney wearing gray hospital pajamas and an oxygen mask.
The officials stand at a window overlooking the room.
Watched closely by Helen, Mike removes the oxygen mask and offers the being a cup of water.
He takes it and draws it shakily towards him.
They all watch him intently.
The Secretary takes a step towards him.
He uses both hands to steady the plastic beaker.
They all stare.
Regina glances at the scientists.
Helen steps forward to help him put down the cup.
He looks just like the climber from His head swivels towards her.
She enters a storeroom with shelves full of vials of drugs.
She leans back against the door and composes herself, then takes a hypodermic in a sealed packet from a glass cabinet.
She puts it in her pocket, then scans the shelves.
The agent hands her a vial.
She pockets a vial of saline solution, goes to the syringe cabinet and opens, then closes the door.
She turns and holds up the syringe packet for the benefit of the suspicious agent.
Jaw thrust forward, Regina eyeballs Klaatu.
Having swapped the two vials, Helen approaches him.
She rolls up his sleeve and jabs the hypodermic into his arm.
The Defense Secretary watches dispassionately, then turns away.
His dark eyes stare at Helen.
Three military policemen surround Helen and escort her from the room.
Klaatu glances down at his arm as the agent from the drugstore comes in.
They eyeball one another.
Helen and her escort walk past two agents pushing an empty wheelchair towards Klaatu's room.
Lift doors slide open.
Inside is Klaatu in a wheelchair with four agents.
Manacled to the chair, he's pushed down a passageway with pipes lining one wall.
He's pushed into a room.
The agent bringing up the rear checks the passageway before entering and closing.
The room is large, with a man in glasses sitting at a table covered with electronic equipment.
He's pushed up to the table.
Electrodes are placed around his body and attached to his temples.
The operator activates the polygraph.
The agents leave the room.
Outside they join others standing guard at regular intervals along the walls of the corridor.
The man studies his equipment.
The operator stares at the electronic traces on his screen, which flickers.
Klaatu turns to look at the man.
The polygraph operator stares fixedly at his screen through glasses perched on the end of his nose.
His screen blurs and distorts.
Needles trace wave patterns on scrolling graph paper.
Klaatu eyes the interrogator steadily.
The man returns his stare with a frown, then reaches out to his console.
The man is thrown backwards by the charge.
Half lying under the table, he twitches, then slowly slides back upright, staring blankly.
Klaatu focuses his vision down the electrode cables, wiring to a security camera overlooking an agent standing guard.
He then channels through to another camera and another guard.
Two more suited agents walk along the corridor.
Klaatu closes his eyes.
The agents clamp their hands over their earpieces, and all collapse to the floor in agony.
Still seated but wearing a suit, Klaatu looks up as the lights flicker and the power fluctuates all over the building.
Helen looks up in alarm, then puts on her coat and grabs the sample of Klaatu's fatty outer skin.
The alien, now standing, turns to the catatonic polygraph operator sitting in his underwear.
Klaatu removes the electrodes and the operator collapses on the table.
He strides down the corridor past the agents who are still writhing in agony.
Helen, glancing around warily, runs down a corridor full of shadows cast by the flickering lights.
Klaatu enters the lift.
Klaatu walks down a railway line in an industrial area.
Flame flares from a stack at a refinery behind him.
The suited fugitive arrives on a railway station platform.
In slow motion, he walks alongside a train, then into the busy station concourse.
He walks calmly through the teeming crowds and looks up at the departures board.
All the trains are delayed.
A guy with a beard jostles through the crowd and snatches a ticket from a man's pocket as he brushes past him.
The heavy-set man notices and follows him.
Klaatu walks up to a snack machine.
Watched by a child, he studies the mechanism, then places his hand on the selection panel.
A tuna salad sandwich drops into the collection tray.
The little curly-haired lad walks up and stares at Klaatu, who senses the presence, turns and stares back.
He stands as the boy continues to stare before being ushered away by his mother.
Klaatu watches the ticket fight and takes a bite of the sandwich.
The big man collapses.
The thief sees his chance and snatches the ticket back off the prone man.
A security guard chases the thief as his colleague attends the fallen man.
Klaatu watches.
Klaatu walks into the grubby men's room.
Standing in front of the mirror, he pulls back his jacket.
There's a patch of blood on his chest seeping through his shirt.
He touches the blood, studies his reflection, then touches a finger to the sweat on his brow.
He collapses.
With a reprimanding look, she takes the phone.
The family next door unloading their car.
Crowds mob the offices of the New Jersey Transport Police.
Helen pushes her way through the throng.
She moves through the crowd and is concerned to see Klaatu sitting on a bench, his head slumped forward.
As she approaches, he looks up into her eyes.
Evacuees file through the city past fences topped with barbed wire.
In the pouring rain, she opens the passenger door of her car and he gets in.
Jacob's sitting in the back.
Klaatu turns and looks at the boy.
She shoots him a mistrustful look and maneuvers her silver car out into the busy street.
She pulls out the sample of his fatty birth skin.
Dips his finger in and rubs some of the substance on the stitched bullet wound on his chest.
The wound heals immediately.
Helen stares in disbelief.
She gapes at him, open-mouthed.
Jacob looks puzzled.
Klaatu calmly adjusts his tie.
Lost for words, she obeys.
Two heavily-armed fighter drones hurtle through the clouds towards Manhattan.
The drones are remote-piloted from the base.
They skim between the high-rise city blocks.
Pilot's eye view is displayed on a bank of monitors.
The orange light glows in the huge robot's head as the Reapers approach.
Beams of energy shoot out from the robot's eye slit, detonating the missiles.
Beams from the robot are locked on the Reapers.
The Reapers are sent plunging into two tanks.
The robot's light goes out.
The Colonel rips off his headset in frustration.
Traffic clogs the night time highway.
As she pulls into a rain-drenched parking lot, an illuminated golden arches sign is reflected in the car's windscreen.
They sit with the windscreen wipers and headlights still on.
He gets out of the car and walks towards a taxi from which an elderly Chinese man is emerging accompanied by a young man holding an umbrella.
In the restaurant, the young man brings a cup to the old man.
The old man and Klaatu sit facing each other.
Helen and his grandson are at another table.
She stares at him.
Helen looks at the men, then lowers her eyes.
Klaatu studies the old man expressionlessly.
High metal panels are pushed into place forming a triangular wall around the robot.
A lid is dropped in place on top.
The Colonel grins nervously.
Police cars speed down a street at night.
Helen is driving towards the Highlands, New Jersey.
In a wooded area, Klaatu gets out of the car.
Jacob stares after him.
Baffled, he looks out of the window.
Watched by Jacob, she walks off following Klaatu.
It's pitch-black.
She moves slowly through the darkness.
She cowers, covering her head, as insects swarm around her.
She comes to a pond.
The surface of the water begins to bubble and light shines up from beneath the surface.
Hiding behind a tree, she watches as a sphere about feet high rises to the surface of the pond.
Lights and dark mists swirl within it.
Fish and other animals are attracted to it.
A frog and a lizard leap into the water heading towards it.
It drifts towards the edge of the pond.
Klaatu approaches it.
Light flares beneath his hand and ripples across the surface as he touches it.
Choppers circle the sphere in Central Park.
Another sphere sits in the middle of a desert.
A burst of light shoots across the surface.
Desert creatures, scorpions and snakes, make their way towards it.
A similar burst of light spreads out across the surface of a sphere in a jungle.
A fishing boat sits on a calm sea.
Behind it, a vast sphere similar to the one in New York breaks the surface.
Klaatu stares into the pond sphere.
Helen watches from a distance as he concentrates, his hand resting on the sphere's surface.
She makes her way back to the car.
She gets into the driver's seat and sits looking stunned.
She stares straight ahead.
Video footage shows people milling around a sphere in South America.
A screen shows a sphere being blasted with a flamethrower, making the surface transparent.
Creatures squirm inside.
Helen and Jacob wait in the car in the woods.
She gets out of the car and follows the boy as he heads into the darkness.
They're bathed in a brilliant light.
Both stare in amazement as the sphere from the pool, blazing with white light, rises slowly into the air.
A sphere rises over the Great Wall of China, another over the Pyramids.
From all over the world, glowing spheres head into space, away from earth's atmosphere.
Klaatu walks in slow-motion through the woods, a shadow emerging through the mist.
Glaring at him, Jacob reluctantly obeys.
They are caught in the police car's spotlight as she backs away from him in horror.
Klaatu's face appears on the cop's computer.
The officer drives up to them.
The cop looks shocked.
With a touch, he sends Helen's car crashing into the cop, crushing him against his own cruiser.
Klaatu then releases Helen's car.
The cop slumps dead to the ground.
Klaatu scoops some of the fatty flesh from the sample jar.
He touches a hand to the police cruiser, activating all its systems.
Helen and Jacob stare as he then reaches down with his other hand and touches the alien flesh to the officer's head.
Power surges through the man's body.
The officer rolls over.
He's alive.
They stare at one another.
Klaatu looks around, hearing the sirens.
Mike's with the Defense Secretary.
The robot is floating down a deep, concrete-walled shaft.
The light in its head slit comes on.
Helen's car is parked in the rain.
A grandfather clock shows 5 past Helen leads the way into the house.
She leads the way into a study.
Klaatu walks into the next room which has books piled everywhere, and approaches a chalkboard covered in figures.
He erases a highly complex formula.
Helen turns away looking worried and approaches Jacob.
She strokes the boy's hair affectionately.
Klaatu writes his own formula on the chalkboard.
A gray-haired man watches as he works, then approaches him.
He picks up a piece of chalk and also starts to write.
Klaatu glances at Karl's work then moves to another part of the board.
Karl pauses to look at his figures as Helen watches them both curiously.
Klaatu draws a sweeping arrow across the board, connecting the formulae.
Karl continues to write as Klaatu adjusts some of his equations.
Klaatu studies him, then turns away from the chalkboard.
Walks across the room, and looks up at the speaker which the music is playing through.
Lights shine in the dark at Mount Weather Flash Facility, Bluemont, Virginia.
The suited agent steps into the operations room separated from a circular chamber by thick windows.
The windows look out onto the vast head and shoulders of GORT.
The light in his head is glowing orange and tracks the agent's every move.
The agent stares at GORT and walks slowly forwards.
GORT's glowing eye follows him.
The agent backs nervously away from the window.
Klaatu studies him thoughtfully.
He walks out of the room through the French windows out onto a terrace.
The glow of the dawn sky and the lights of three approaching helicopters.
Shocked, Helen rushes in doors.
She kisses him on the cheek and rushes off.
Helen, Klaatu, and Jacob leave the house and run for the car through the rain.
They abandon the car and run off into the dense surrounding woodland.
Klaatu leads the way, followed by Helen, trying to keep up and holding Jacob's hand.
They run through the woods as fast as they can as the choppers thunder overhead.
Jacob breaks away from Helen's grasp.
A soldier drops down a rope and snatches Helen.
As the two remaining choppers hover above, Klaatu strides past the stunned Jacob into a clearing.
Klaatu attracts the targetting lasers to the palms of his hands.
As they fire, reverses the energy flow.
The pilots clutch their helmet in agony as the choppers go out of control.
They smash into each other and plunged to the ground, erupting in a huge fire ball.
Jacob turns and runs back into the woods.
Klaatu follows at a leisurely pace.
The boy comes to a narrow, wooden bridge over a river.
Terrified, he steps onto the wet planks.
As he backs away from the advancing alien, a rocking board breaks under him.
Klaatu reaches out and stops him from falling.
Frowning, Klaatu studies the lad.
He looks hopefully up at Klaatu.
They stare at one another.
He strides off.
Jacob hesitates then follows him.
An operative in a protective suit gets into the chamber with GORT to repair the drill mechanism.
The agent and the ops room staff watch through the window.
The chipped drill bit is removed and replaced with a new one.
Deep in the minute cracks of the damaged drill, tiny black bugs flutter and multiply by dividing in two.
Klaatu glances at him.
In the chamber, the operative tightens up the new drill bit.
He's about to leave, when he notices the old drill bit.
It's being eaten away.
He drops it and hurriedly makes to leave the chamber.
The man's suit, air canister, and body are being eaten away.
The massive steel bands holding GORT are also being eaten away.
As the agent watches, the window glass is attacked.
A massive jet of flame roars up a chamber.
The operations room staff squint in the intense glare.
Flames and smoke clear but GORT remains.
His eyes still glowing.
The agent stares in fear as GORT raises his massive hands to show he's free.
GORT dissolves becoming a cloud of bugs which fills the flash chamber.
The agent bolts for the door, but his pass won't work.
The officer in charge watches grimly as the swirling cloud attacks the windows.
Others start to panic.
The cloud flows into the ops room.
Huge array of men in vehicles has assembled nearby.
Vast pressure is straining the massive steel doors of the facility.
They burst open and one is hurled high in the air.
The soldiers let fly at the cloud with all fire power at their disposal.
But it rose inexorably down the hill side towards them.
Men start to run as the cloud reaches them.
The Defense Secretary stares at the officer, then lowers her eyes in resignation.
A truck rumbles down a desert highway towards the smoking chimneys of an industrial complex.
The driver fiddles with the radio, looks puzzled.
Then, switches on his windscreen wipers.
The cloud envelopes the truck.
Starting at the back, the truck is eaten to dust by the voracious mass which flies on.
A road sign disintegrates, chewed to nothing.
Helen sits head bowed in a sparsely furnished room.
Helen looks affectionately at Mike.
She gathers up her belongings including her phone and checks her watch.
In the woods near a high bridge, Jacob and Klaatu find an old ranger hut.
They force open the door.
Jacob tries the phone.
Klaatu unplugs the receiver, touches his finger to the end of the cord, plugs it back in and hands the phone to Jacob.
The lad reaches up to dial on the wall-mounted phone as Klaatu looks around the room.
A pick up drives down a forest road.
Jacob and Klaatu are sitting in the open back of the pickup.
He looks earnestly at Klaatu, who considers him without emotion.
He looks thoughtfully at Jacob.
An iron gate is topped with ornate spikes.
Jacob climbs over a low wall also topped with iron railings.
Klaatu follows.
The alien follows the boy into a cemetery filled with rows of white headstones.
Klaatu looks down at the inscriptions.
Jacob kicks leaves away from one of the graves and dust off the headstone with his glove.
Jacob looks pleadingly at him.
Klaatu studies him and walks away.
Jacob kneels down dejectedly in front of his father's grave.
As he kneels crying, Helen rushes up to him, kneels down, puts her arms around him, and hugs him tightly.
They put their arms around each other and hold each other tightly.
Klaatu watches them intently.
Remaining expressionless, Klaatu walks towards them.
Wind blows the leaves as he approaches.
Mike arrives in his SUV.
She looks imploringly at him.
Her eyes filled with tears.
The swarm darkens the sky behind Klaatu.
The swarm approaches a sports stadium, which crumbles to dust as the cloud engulfs it.
The mass, now a vast swirling gray sea, is heading for New York.
The Secretary raises a hand to her mouth, stifling her emotion.
A screen shows the mass spreading out across the Eastern seaboard of the United States.
New York City is completely deserted.
The lights and advertisements of Time Square have no one to see them.
Mike's SUV drives down the empty streets.
Mike drives with Klaatu in the passenger seat, in the back Helen and Jacob look anxiously at each other.
Mike glances at him then puts his foot down.
They hurtle towards the military road block.
Soldiers dive out of the way.
They're pursued by hummers with machine guns.
Mike looks tense and Helen looks nervously out of the back window.
Klaatu seems calm.
The pursuers fall back.
They turn into leafy, wooded Central Park and drive across the grass towards the sphere.
An explosion lifts the car, rolling it over several times before it comes to rest against the tree.
Fighters streak overhead as the sphere is engulfed in a great fire ball.
Regina watches the attack on a monitor.
She closes her eyes in relief.
As the smoke clears, the sphere is completely intact.
The swarm reaches the edge of Manhattan.
In the car, Mike is dead.
She frantically undoes her seat belt, looks at Michael, and notices the windscreen is being eaten.
Klaatu pulls himself out of the car, then lifts out Jacob.
Helen emerges and looks up to see the swarm swirling around the sphere.
More gray clouds of bugs arrive, darkening the skies.
He looks around then grabbing Jacob's hand, he leads them in a sprint across the grass.
Just ahead of the hedge, they run into a tunnel.
The swarm stays outside.
He frowns, thinking hard.
Jacob's nose is bleeding.
As Helen crouches to examine him, he collapses in her arms.
She wipes her nose.
There's blood on her finger.
She looks at him pleadingly.
Klaatu gently takes Jacob in Helen's hand in his.
He closes his eyes, concentrating.
Bugs start to run up his wrist.
They're coming out through Helen and Jacob's skin, burrowing bloodily into Klaatu.
Jacob wakes up.
Klaatu opens his eyes and looks at pair.
Helen stares at him wide-eyed.
He stands up and walks towards the mouth of the tunnel.
He looks round at Helen comforting Jacob.
She stares back at him.
Klaatu steps out into the raging swarm.
He walks slowly through the swirling gray cloud.
Hand raised, vainly trying to protect his face and head.
Holes appear in his suit.
His hands and face are bloody.
As he approaches the sphere, slowly, he sinks to his knees.
With a final effort, he stands, reaches up, and touches the sphere.
Light blazes as he is absorbed into it
The sphere emits a beaming pulse of energy and the swarms, millions of bugs, begin to fall like rain to the ground.
Screens at the control center where Regina is sitting alone flicker, then go off as the power fails.
Lights go out in Tokio.
San Francisco goes dark.
Lights on the bridge and car headlights all go out.
Satellite dishes in the desert powered down.
And the lights go out at an oil refinery.
Train near the base of snow-capped Mt. Fuji comes to a halt.
An oil wales come to a stand still.
The dead swarm continues to rain down on the half-destroyed buildings of Manhattan.
Traffic is stopped in Parliament Square in London.
People look bewildered.
The sun sets behind the Sydney Opera House in Harbour Bridge.
Ships sit motionless at a busy commercial port.
A car production line is silent.
The blinds are open at the military base.
Regina looks out to the sun and the aircraft parked on the tarmac.
She looks down and taps her watch, which is stopped at half past eight.
In Central Park, Helen and Jacob emerge from the tunnel and walk towards the sphere across the gray carpet of dead bugs.
They watch as the sphere rotates.
Intense light filtering out through the swirling mist within.
They look at each other as the sphere glows powerfully and slowly rises into the air.
Throwing out beams of light, it rises up through the clouds and away.
Jacob puts his arm around his stepmother.
She strokes his hair.
The sphere heads out into space leaving the earth behind.
FLASHBACK - Juno approaches a boy hidden by shadow.
He's sitting in an overstuffed chair.
She slowly, clumsily lowers herself onto his lap.
A DOG barks, jarring Juno back to reality.
We see a teacup poodle tethered in the yard a few feet away from the abandoned living room set.
The dog yaps again.
She swigs from an absurdly oversized carton of juice and wipes her mouth with the back of her hand.
Finally, a panting Juno arrives at DANCING ELK DRUG on the main drag of her small Minnesota suburb, Dancing Elk.
She enters the DRUGSTORE.
ROLLO, the eccentric drugstore clerk, sneers at Juno from behind the counter.
He wears a polyester uniform vest.
Rollo regards her with intense skepticism.
An eavesdropping TOUGH GIRL wearing an oversized jacket and lots of makeup gapes at Juno from the beauty aisle.
Rollo pulls the bathroom key out of reach.
Rollo sighs and slips her the bathroom key.
Juno races down one of the aisles.
She shakes the stick desperately in an attempt to skew the results.
Shake.
Shake.
Juno walks slowly and dejectedly up the street to her house, gnawing on the Super Rope.
Juno trudges toward her HOUSE.
The yard is a wild tangle of prairie grass and wild flowers.
She stops and loops the Super Rope over a low-hanging tree branch, contemplating how to fashion a noose.
Juno's BEDROOM is decorated with punk posters: The Damned, The Germs, the Stooges, Television, Richard Hell, etc.
She picks up a hamburger-shaped phone to call her best friend.
LEAH's room is cluttered with the sentimental junk that certain girls love to hoard.
Leah and Juno struggle to drag a recliner across a well manicured suburban lawn.
They make a formidable team.
Bleeker discreetly pushes a POSTCARD to Juno with his foot.
She picks it up off the floor, reads it, then looks at Bleeker, who is watching the teacher obediently.
Bleeker putting on double socks in his Car-Bed.
Bleeker putting on his sweat bands.
CU of Bleeker applying Runner's Glide.
CU of a CROISSANT POCKET warming in the microwave.
PAUL BLEEKER steps onto the front porch of his house for early morning track practice.
Bleeker is startled to discover that Juno is outside waiting for him.
She has somehow arranged the living room set on the front lawn, and is seated in the armchair, chewing a pipe officiously.
She mounts her bicycle and waves before riding off.
Juno pushes her crappy bike into the bike rack
and winds a lock around it.
We see Steve looking back at Juno for a brief second with mixed feelings.
We see Leah at the far end of the hallway, talking animatedly with a paunchy middle-aged teacher, KEITH.
STUDENTS bustle in, as the teacher, MR. 
TINKER tries to maintain order.
Juno heads toward her desk and sets down her bag.
Juno looks up and meets eyes with her longtime lab partner: Bleeker.
GIRL LAB PARTNER stalks off dramatically.
Juno examines a large ad in the newspaper that depicts a distraught TEEN GIRL clutching her head in a moment of staged conflict.
She SMACKS the phone a couple of times.
A HEALTH TEACHER in slo-mo puts a condom on a banana.
We see Paulie's face at the moment of his deflowering: he's comically wide-eyed with shock.
Juno, her father MAC, her stepmother BREN, and LIBERTY BELL sit at a very typical kitchen table, eating dinner.
MAC shovels food while chatting about his day.
PILE OF NEGLECTED CACTI festering in a corner of Juno's room.
BREN is cutting up LIBERTY'S food diligently.
Her nails are brilliant, holding the silverware.
Bren stitches a needlepoint pillow of a dog.
Bren's nail salon in all its glory.
Bren chats up a customer as she applies a fresh coat.
Bren speaks in her strong city accent.
We see Liberty Bell blithely pouring bacon bits onto her dinner.
Juno trudges toward the front entrance of the clinic.
Juno recognizes the PROTESTER as a classmate of hers.
She continues on toward the clinic entrance.
She considers the concept, then pushes open the clinic door.
The receptionist sits behind a pane of bulletproof glass.
Juno flashes her best jazz hands.
The receptionist raises a pierced eyebrow and arranges some paperwork on a clipboard.
The receptionist hands Juno the clipboard and a pen.
The receptionist reaches into one of those ubiquitous women's clinic CONDOM JARS, and holds up a fistful of purple rubbers.
The waiting room is semi-crowded, occupied mostly by pregnant women, teens and ill-behaved children.
She points to the paper and motions for Juno to look.
Juno scans the ad silently.
We see the ad.
It contains a photo of an attractive couple with ambiguous Mona Lisa smiles.
We see Paulie's bedroom window -- festooned with childish curtains -- and the light on inside.
Bleeker lies on his Car-bed in his track uniform, listening to the same LP from when he and Juno went all the way.
He stares between the pages of his embossed Dancing Elk Prep yearbook.
We see the object of his gaze is Juno's black and white YEARBOOK PHOTO.
Next to it, we see a sloppy, handwritten message from Juno.
Bren and Mac are predictably speechless.
Leah presents the Penny Saver photos of the Lornings.
Bren looks understandably alarmed.
Juno hastily attempts to make the situation sound more legitimate.
Music plays as we see SPARSE IMAGES OF VANESSA LORING'S HANDS preparing the house for Juno's arrival -- Sprucing a vase of FLOWERS.
The Previa cruises slowly into the Loring's fancy gated community.
Mark and Vanessa Loring have an impressive, though generic McMansion.
The entire yard is unlandscaped soil.
Mac pulls over and parks on the curb.
Both look mortified as they wait for someone to greet them.
VANESSA opens the door.
She's a pretty, meticulous woman in her early thirties.
Vanessa awkwardly leads them into her home.
She takes off her hooded sweatshirt and thrusts it into Vanessa's arms who sets it on a bench.
MARK LORING appears next to Vanessa.
He's a boyishly attractive guy in his mid-thirties.
He glances sheepishly at Vanessa upon hearing the Penny Saver mention, then extends his hand to Mac and Juno.
Mac seizes Mark's hand and pumps it heartily.
Mark and Vanessa usher Juno and Mac into the austere, spacious living room.
A woman in a business suit sits on the couch with a briefcase in her lap.
Vanessa is clearly ecstatic.
Mark and Juno lock eyes.
She holds her WRIST up to Mark's twitching nostrils.
Mark inhales.
Juno is staring into a room with the door slightly ajar.
We see GUITARS mounted on the wall, and the edges of posters.
Vanessa, Mac and Gerta Rauss are waiting in awkward silence for Juno and Mark to return.
Mac notices a brand new PILATES MACHINE sitting in its packaging in a corner of the room.
Vanessa and Gerta have no response.
Vanessa's looks to the ceiling.
Mark and Juno tool around on the guitars unplugged.
They play little riffs.
Mark seems visibly embarrassed by Vanessa's manic demeanor.
Juno and Mac have put their coats on and are in the process of leaving.
Vanessa and Mark trail behind.
Mac STARES at Juno gravely.
Juno looks at Mark.
Juno and Mac exit.
Mark shuts the door.
The TRACK TEAM jogs in formation, leaving tracks in the snow.
Bleeker is running alone on the track.
Bleeker's friend VIJAY jogs up alongside him.
Vijay is a solemn, skinny boy, much like Bleeker.
Those bastards never stop running.
VIJAY jogs off.
Bleeker STOPS and wipes away his sweat.
We're looking over Juno's now FIVE MONTH PREGNANT BELLY to a school administrator filling out a slip.
Juno takes the slip, turns around and smiles all the way out.
Juno exits the head office and bumps into Bleeker.
The monitor reveals the baby's head.
Juno, Leah and Bren become immediately defensive.
Bren gestures to the ULTRASOUND MONITOR.
The ULTRASOUND TECH exits in a huff.
Juno lays in bed checking out the ULTRASOUND PRINT OUT.
The Previa drives into the front gate of Mark and Vanessa's exclusive community.
Juno rings the doorbell, shifting her weight in the cold.
MARK answers the door, dressed in a t-shirt and jeans.
He gestures awkwardly to Juno's belly.
Mark leads Juno into the kitchen, where he pours two drinks.
Mark looks jolted, as if it's the first time he considered that her baby might have a father.
Mark SWIVELS AROUND slowly on his desk chair, surprised.
Mark walks over to his music collections
and starts pulling CD's.
Mark mouths along with the lyrics.
Juno spots a VHS TAPE on the coffee table and picks it up.
We see some particularly memorable footage from The Wizard of Gore.
A door suddenly slams upstairs.
Juno jumps up and rushes out.
Vanessa is obviously entertaining some worse-case scenarios.
She holds the ULTRASOUND up to show Vanessa and drapes her arm around her.
Juno glances at Mark and again at Vanessa.
A beat as Bren absorbs this.
Juno heads to the URN by the door
and defiantly pours the remains of her blue slushie into the URN.
Juno parks her PREVIA on the street.
BLEEKER'S MOM answers, visibly annoyed.
Her eyes drift down to Juno's middle.
Bleeker glances at Juno's midsection, embarrassed.
Bleeker smiles faintly.
He nervously cracks open a container of ORANGE TIC-TACS and pours them into his mouth.
Juno walks over to the bed and sits down next to Bleeker.
Bleeker is visibly relieved.
Bleeker picks at the carpet, dejected.
The house is covered in fresh snow.
The walls are primed slate gray.
Vanessa points to the nursery's largest wall.
Mark stares at the wall, looking lost.
Juno and Leah are walking through the mall, looking bored.
Juno is wearing one of Mac's giant hockey jerseys in lieu of actual maternity wear.
Leah gnaws on a giant cinnamon pretzel.
She wrestles Leah for the pretzel.
Onlookers stare at them, appalled, as Leah puts Juno in a half-Nelson.
They're watching a group of well-heeled women and their children shopping en masse.
And one of the women is VANESSA, looking vaguely detached.
They watch Vanessa for a few more moments.
The other kids wander over toward the play area while their mothers ignore them.
Vanessa continues to entertain the children.
Juno tries her best to look enthused.
Vanessa is admiring the belly, when Juno grimaces.
She grabs Vanessa's hand and plants it on her stomach.
Vanessa moves her hand, wanting desperately to feel the baby.
Vanessa looks like she's giving up hope.
Vanessa kneels down next to the swell of Juno's belly.
Mark drops his head, dejected.
Mark instantly smiles.
Smiles.
CU on Juno's tray sliding along, picking up an odd combo of pregnant food.
Pull up to find Juno and Leah walking their trays to a table.
Juno and Leah are sitting inside an emptied awards case on the wall, eating their lunch.
Juno notices that the other kids in the cafeteria can't help but glance her way.
She illustrates by making a rounded gesture near her stomach.
We see KEITH the teacher talking to some science kids in the background.
He has a Wild America beard.
He lifts a cup of coffee to his lips and slurps lustily.
Bleeker retrieves a book from his open locker.
Juno marches up to him, belly leading the way.
Juno is clearly AFFRONTED.
A GIRL strides past (obviously KATRINA) with a sour look aimed squarely at Juno.
She starts to walk away.
Juno picks up her BACKPACK dejectedly and slides it over her shoulder.
She's about to walk away, when.
Juno climbs ungracefully into the van.
Mark is seated at the computer, surfing a horror movie website.
He has the blank expression of a bored obsessive.
Mark breaks into a grin.
Mark opens the door.
Juno stands there, looking radiantly knocked-up.
She holds a stack of CDs.
He gestures for Juno to follow him into the house.
The Lorings' basement is dank, cluttered unfinished and unattractive, much like Paulie Bleeker's.
Mark pulls a chain to illuminate a bare bulb.
Juno examines the comic.
There's a battered portable CD player in the corner.
She mockingly places her hands on Mark's waist and moves back and forth stiffly.
They SWAY slowly to the music.
Juno's belly bumps up against Mark.
Juno rests her head on Mark's chest.
They dance in silence for a few moments, then stop moving.
Juno backs away.
Mark suddenly sees Juno for what she is -- a teenage girl.
Juno turns to leave, then shoots one furious look back at Mark.
Juno reaches the top of the stairs and scrambles toward the front door, only to be intercepted by Vanessa, who's returning home from work, carrying her briefcase and a freshly purchased NURSING PILLOW.
It's obvious from Juno's tears and flushed face that she's lying.
She rushes toward the door.
Juno halts.
Juno looks totally betrayed.
Vanessa looks at Juno's expression and knows Mark is lying.
Juno's face continues to fall.
Vanessa notices.
Vanessa sighs.
Vanessa looks defeated.
Vanessa and Mark look over and notice that Juno has escaped the conflict.
Juno runs up to her car sobbing.
It's quiet after the storm.
Juno buckles over the steering wheel, crying, unwinding for the first time since she became pregnant.
Bleeker is sitting next to his bed, noodling on the guitar.
He's playing a theme that we will soon recognise.
Juno lays on the hood of her Previa, contemplating her future.
After a beat, she begins to gather herself.
She hops off the hood and scurries into the Previa where she finds a crumpled up Jiffy Lube receipt.
She unfolds it and pulls out a pen, ready to write something.
Inside, we see Vanessa sitting alone at her perfect dining room table, drinking a glass of wine.
Vanessa takes a sip and continues to let the days events sink in.
After a beat, Mark comes down the stairs to join her.
Mark nods and sits down.
There's a LOUD KNOCK on the front door.
Mark opens the door.
He squints and sees Juno pulling away in the van.
He holds it up.
We can see there's WRITING on the back.
Vanessa takes the note from his hand and turns it over, examining it.
A porch light's been left on for her, and the place looks cozy and inviting.
Juno parks her car and walks up to her house.
She picks a CROCUS from the unkempt garden near the porch and sniffs it.
She lifts her shirt and tickles her belly with it.
Mac is alone at the kitchen table going over the family finances while drinking one of Bren's weight loss shakes.
Juno enters.
A wave of REALIZATION crosses Juno's face.
Juno presses Bleeker's hand against her belly.
Juno lets out a genuine shriek of pain.
The doctor reveals JUNO'S BABY BOY above the sheet.
Juno looks at the baby in awe, then her eyes begin to flutter.
and she passes out.
Paulie Bleeker is running as fast as his legs can carry him on the Dancing Elk track.
There's a very sparse crowd in the bleachers.
As Paulie approaches the tape, his envious teammate Vijay looks on.
The fifteen or so people in attendance cheer.
Paulie breaks the tape, winning the race.
Bleeker looks out at the BLEACHERS, scanning them for Juno.
Bleek takes off RUNNING toward the parking lot without stopping to explain.
The nurse turns and addresses an unseen spectator.
A NURSE reaches into one of the maternity ward bassinets and gently lifts up a swaddled newborn baby.
It looks like it was handwritten on the back of a Jiffy Lube bill.
We move to the door and get a view of Vanessa's bedroom.
We see her lying in bed with a burp cloth draped over her shoulder, feeding the baby.
For the first time ever, Vanessa looks disorganized, unshowered -- and incredibly happy.
There are formula bottles on the bedside table and a bassinet pushed close to the bed.
Obviously, she hasn't been away from the baby for a single moment.
It's a sparkling summer afternoon.
She waves goodbye to Bren, who is playing in the yard with two WEIMARANERS.
She looks happy, but older.
She looks almost as happy with her dogs as VANESSA looked with her baby.
Juno wheels her bicycle out of the detached garage.
She's obviously not pregnant anymore.
Her guitar is slung over her shoulder in a gig bag.
Juno rides her bike aggressively down the street.
Juno bikes up to find Bleeker sitting on the stoop.
She smiles and takes out her guitar.
She sits across from Bleeker and pulls the pick out of the strings.
Bleeker nods.
She and Bleeker exchange glances as they play.
Pull out to reveal the surrounding green suburb buzzing with life and summer activity.
They smile ambiguously.
Juno leans over and kisses Bleeker on the cheek.
As she tears recklessly down the street on her bikes, she passes the Dancing Elk TRACK TEAM, still running in outrageously skimpy shorts and bandanas.
Bo finally looks at her father.
She smiles softly.
Graham looks in the direction of THE BOY'S VOICE.
Merill picks up Bo and rushes through the crops.
He finds MORGAN standing with his hands in the pockets of his pajama bottoms.
Merill puts Bo on the ground and moves right in front of Morgan.
The ten-year old boy looks deep in thought.
Graham takes hold of Morgan's chin and turns his face so he's looking straight at him.
Morgan's eyes reveal he's come to some answer.
Morgan takes hold of his father's unshaven chin and turns his face.
Graham is forced to look to his right.
Graham sees something.
Graham Hess slowly rises to his feet.
He starts moving forward towards something.
He walks through a thin layer of crops and emerges in a clearing.
Graham Hess looks around in a daze as he walks out into the center.
Merrill, Bo and Morgan follow him.
Two German Shepherds are running back and forth.
The dogs keep running and barking as WE PULL BACK AND REVEAL .
They are clearly agitated.
Graham turns off the phone.
He turns to put it on the counter and realizes his children are seated on the kitchen floor with one of their two German Shepherds.
There is a LARGE PUDDLE on the kitchen tiles.
Graham looks at the majestic dog.It's shivering.
Morgan and Bo lead their dog out with worried expressions on their faces.
A police officer stands on the other side of the screen door.
OFFICER EDGAR PASKI nods that he knows.
Graham stares at Officer Paski.
Morgan pokes the barbecue fork into two meat patties on the grill.
He places two pieces of cheese on the hamburgers, before walking over to Houdini.
Bo is about to pour the glass of water into the dog bowl.
She moves to Houdini, who sits in the shade by the picnic table.Takes a tiny sip of the water first.
She stops.
She holds the glass out to Morgan.
He drinks.
The two children sit down in the grass with the dog.
Bo shrugs and pours it into the bowl.
Houdini just sits staring at them.
He is not shivering.
He is unnaturally still.
Bo pushes the bowl closer.
HOUDINI BEGINS TO GROWL.
The children turn white.
Bo stands up.
Houdini crouches down.
The German Shepherd trembles.
His body tightens.
He's about to leap.
Officer Paski stands up.
He turns back and stares in the direction of the house.
Morgan's attention moves as the crops part and his father and Officer Paski enter the backyard.
They stop cold when they look in his direction.
They begin a slow walk towards him.
Morgan Hess is seated under the jungle gym with Houdini on his lap.
Morgan is petting Houdini's fur gently.
As Graham and Officer Paski get closer, they see Morgan is crying.
Then they see the dog is laying on it side and has a BARBECUE .
Bo is on top of the jungle gym curled up in a ball.
They stare at Morgan as he slowly pulls an inhaler from his pocket and brings it to his mouth.
He inhales the asthma spray.
He lowers the inhaler so he can speak.
Graham stares at his ten-year old son.
He starts crying.
Graham picks him up in his arms.
Graham reaches up for Bo.
She has dirt and tears on her face.
She slowly climbs down.
Graham carries Bo as she cry in his arms.
He starts towards the house.
Merrill walks out from the back holding a bowl of food.
Merrill stands still with potato salad in his hands.
Graham reaches the porch of his house and opens the screen door.
The children watch over their father's shoulder as Merrill runs to their other German Shepherd sitting quietly near the house and leads her by her collar across the yard to the shed.
Officer Paski is pulling the barbecue fork out of their dead dog's neck.
Graham lies in bed.
He rests his cheek against the pillow as he lies by himself.
Graham slowly gets up from the bed.
He takes his daughter's hand and starts out of the room.
They both sit quietly for a moment.
He looks to his daughter with startled eyes.
Graham's eyes drift to the bedroom window.
A LARGE SILHOUETTED .
Graham stands.
Merrill opens the front door.
It's pitch black outside.
Merrill turn to Graham and gestures with his fingers.
Merrill brings his fingers together at the end of a gesture.
Merrill and Graham look out into the darkness.
Graham runs through the darkness around the first corner of the house.
Merill waves his arms.
Merrill turns a corner full speed.
THE LARGE FIGURE HAS COME .
Merill's eyes drift above them.
Graham starts out of the kitchen.
Bo watches cartoons.
Bo's cartoon is replaced by a special report news icon.
Morgan takes the asthma inhaler from his pocket and breathes in deeply.
Graham and Edgar walk down the driveway to Edgar's patrol car.
Graham TURNS IT OFF.
Morgan nods and then plops back into the backseat.
Downtown Bucks County.
A group of small stores along a quiet street.
The Hess station wagon pulls in front of a free parking meter.
Graham steps out the driver's side and looks around.
Merrill puts change in the meter.
Morgan walks up to Graham with Bo.
Morgan holds out his hand.
Morgan takes the money Graham gives him, then takes Bo's hand and walks down the sidewalk.
Graham watches them turn into a store.
Merrill steps onto the sidewalk.
Hands in his pockets as he walks away.
Graham turns and calls after him.
Merrill waves over his shoulder.
He keeps walking.
Graham starts across the street to the pharmacy.
Three isles wide.
MR AND MRS. NATHAN, a couple in their early seventies, sit behind their counter and watch a black and white TV.
Morgan steps up to the counter.
Morgan shrugs.
Mrs. Nathan pushes her husband aside.
Mrs. Nathan points over to the far corner.
A gum chewing PHARMACIST in her early twenties, who looks like she's in her teens, glances through back shelves of medicines as she listens to the radio.
Graham stares at the girl.
When Tracey speaks her VOICE IS A BIT SHAKY.
Graham looks at the young girl's teary eyes.
Merrill stares up at a poster with a muscular guy in an Army uniform standing at attention on a beach.
We are in a narrow ARMY RECRUITING CENTER.
Inside the small storefront space is a desk.
The crewcut guy savors the beat of silence.
It takes a second, but Merrill smiles.
The crewcut guy smiles back.
The crewcut guy reaches to a stack of brochures.
Picks the top brochure and hands it to Merrill.
Merrill looks up from the brochure.
The crewcut guy begins to stare at Merrill closely.
Merrill turns to the young man, about his age, who sits at the folding table.
LIONEL smirks.
Merrill tucks the pamphlet in his jacket.
Looks like he's not going to say anything.
When he does, the words are soft and worn; they've been said a hundred times.
Merrill turns and starts walking.
As he passes Lionel, Merrill makes a small, quick move in Lionel's direction, like he might hit him.
Lionel flinches and covers his face.
Merrill walks out the door of the army recruiting office.
Graham glances at the girl as she sits sideways to him at the counter.
Graham's eyes widen.
Morgan turns a knob on the side.
Morgan hands Graham the monitor in the front seat.
Everyone becomes frozen, standing next to the station wagon.
Three of the doors are open.
He keeps it out in the air where he had it as he closed his door.
Graham looks to Merrill over the roof of the station wagon.
Graham moves.
He hands the monitor over the hood.
Merrill reaches for it.
Graham looks at Merrill, who's now one of them.
Morgan is the first one to move.
He moves from the back passenger door to the back bumper where he begins to climb onto the station wagon.
Morgan crawls on the roof and takes the monitor ever-so gently out of Graham and Merrill's outstretched hands.
Bo runs to the front bumper and climbs onto the hood.
Merrill climbs up over the side and joins Morgan on the roof.
Merrill keeps a hand on his nephew.
Morgan raises the monitor above his head.
THERE'S MOVEMENT RIGHT NEXT TO HIM.
Graham spins and aims the FLASHLIGHT AT THE CROPS TO HIS RIGHT.
THE LIGHT ONLY PENETRATES A FEW FEET INTO THE CROPS.
Graham holds his breath.
Graham turns and drops the FLASHLIGHT at the same time.
THE BEAM OF LIGHT TURNS OFF WHEN THE FLASHLIGHT HITS THE GROUND.
Graham kneels down and gropes in the darkness.
His hands search over the ground in all directions.
They finally touch the flashlight.
Graham tries to get up.
He stumbles backwards into the crops.
He's tangled in crops as he struggles to rise.
He gets up and starts running.
Leaves and stalks slap him from all directions.
THERE IS SOMETHING COMING BEHIND .
Graham makes a sudden right turn.
He puts his hands in front of him to protect his face and eyes.
Another sudden turn, this time left.
Graham keeps running across the yard.
Graham steps into the kitchen.
His hair is messed.
His shirt has a few leaves from corn stalks stuck to it.
The children don't notice his presence.
Graham takes two steps to the kitchen table and slowly takes a seat.
They're splashing each other at the sink as they clean the dinner dishes.
His kind eyes stare down at the ground as he slows his mind.
His breathing is a slow controlled pant.
The children stop playing and look up to Graham.
They follow his stare to the kitchen table.
Graham looks up at them.
Morgan reaches into the pile of video tapes under the television stand.
He grabs one.
Bo snatches the video as Morgan tries to put it into the VCR.
Morgan stares at his sister.
Graham and Merrill sit down at the same time on the sofa.
They both have the same dazed, slow movements.
Morgan rummages through the pile of videos frantically.
He finds one and reaches for the VCR.
He's breathing heavy now, Wheezing actually.
Morgan moves to the sofa and takes a seat in between his father and his uncle.
Bo walks over and squeezes in also.
The four of them stare at the television.
Morgan brings his asthma spray to his mouth and inhales.
The family room lights are off now.
There are a couple glasses of Bo's water on the television now.
Bo is asleep on Graham's shoulder.
Morgan is asleep on Merill's lap.
Graham turns his sleepy eyes away from the screen to Merrill.
Merrill looks his brother in the eyes.
Merrill looks at the TV screen.
Graham smiles.
The two of them turn back to the silent screen of the television.
Merrill's mouth opens a bit.
Graham turns back to the television.
Graham's eyes open.
DAYLIGHT FILLS the family room.
He is alone on the couch.
e is alone in the room.
He looks to the television which is not there.
Graham moves to his feet and look around the room.
His eyes stop on an EXTENSION CORD that runs from a wall outlet in the family room, across the front hall, and under a closet door.
Graham moves to the door.
Graham opens the CLOSET.
Merrill looks up.
He's seated on a kitchen chair with the television on a roll-away stand crammed in with him.
Graham looks at the TV screen.
There's a daylight shot of Mexico City.
The skies are empty above it.
Merrill puts a finger in the sky on the screen.
Merrill's finger trails to the bottom of the screen.
Graham opens the bathroom door and steps out with wet hair.
He towels it dry as he moves to his bedroom window.
The backyard is large and green with a wooden jungle gym.
A single tree throws shade onto a picnic table.
The back of the yard is lined by corn crops, Golden and brown,Six feet high.
The crops go on well beyond our view.
Graham stares at them quietly, Watching.
He listens closely.
Graham walks into the hall and looks in their room.
Morgan and Bo are seated on the edge of their bed.
They have TIN FOIL wrapped around their heads like a helmet.
Graham stares at his children.
Graham enters the room.
The children make space for him on the bed.
He takes a seat between them.
Morgan puts the book on his father's lap.
Graham looks on the back cover for a picture.
Morgan closes the book.
Graham looks at his two children with foil on their heads.
Morgan puts the book on his father's lap.
Morgan opens the tome.
Graham acknowledges with a nod that he did have a tone.
Graham turns the page.
Graham looks at an illustration of a small, bulbous headed figure shaking hands with a bearded human.
Morgan turns the page.
A space ship is hovering over the home shooting laser beams at it.
 There is a picture of a house
Their eyes move to the front yard.
There are three bodies lying dead on the front lawn.Two are children.
The children SCREAM and cling to their father.
THEIR SCREAMS DIE DOWN.
He closes the book.
The PHONE RINGS again.
Graham gets up.
Graham steps out into the hallway.
He tucks the book under his arm and picks up the phone.
THROUGH THE PHONE WE HEAR SUDDEN SCUFFLING, A CHAIR SQUEAL AGAINST THE FLOOR and then the phone disconnects.
Graham comes down the stairs with his overcoat on.
He moves to the closet door and knocks on it before opening it.
Graham starts down the hall.
Merrill steps out of the closet for the first time.
Morgan pulls his eye away from the telescope that is set up on the window seat in his room.
Bo hugs Morgan tight.
Morgan peels Bo's arms off of him.
Graham unlocks the front door.
He looks down the hall shocked.
 Doesn't react
and Keeps staring.
Ray clutches the steering wheel tightly, turning his knuckles a yellow white.
There are two large bags over flowing with clothes.
Graham glances to the backseat of the truck.
Graham's eyes gently move back to Ray and drift down to the TWO BLOOD STAINED AREA ON HIS SHIRT.
Tears start falling down Graham's face.
Ray finally turns.
His red face quivers as he talks.
Ray looks at Graham.
The two men stare at each other for a beat.
Ray looks away.
He puts the car in drive.
Graham steps away as the truck moves forward and pulls down the driveway.
Merrill's head is leaned against a bunch of winter coats.
 His eyes are closed.
Merrill's eyes open.
Merrill sits up in his chair.
The chair in the closet CREAKS as Merrill leans forward a little towards the television screen.
RUNNING.
Graham waits for a reply, but none comes.
Graham bends down where he stands.
He puts his head near the wood floor.
He tries to look under the door.
All he can see are the bottoms of a couple shelves in the corner of the pantry.
He's at too severe an angle.
Graham sits up.
He's only four feet away from the pantry door.
He looks around not knowing what to do.
His eyes fall on a bunch of kitchen knives that have spilled from a drawer onto the floor.
He takes a butcher knife from the group and moves closer to the door.
He reaches with the butcher knife underneath the slanted kitchen table.
He uses the knife like a mirror to see under the door.
Graham watches the SOFT REFLECTION IN .
Graham pulls the knife out.
He sits there kneeling two feet from the door.
He takes a deep breath and starts to lower his head under the slanted table.
He stops halfway down.
He loses his nerve and sits up.
He rises to his feet as he places the butcher knife on the counter.
Graham starts walking across the kitchen.
He gets to the door.
He stays like that for a long time.
Graham lets go of the doorknob -- He turns and walks quickly across the kitchen -- He picks up the butcher knife -- He kneels down next to the pantry -- He ducks his head under the slanted kitchen table -- He places his cheek to the floor, only inches from the bottom of the door, and looks into the pantry.
Graham stares at his VIEW OF THE FLOOR.
Something's wrong.
Graham stares at his family huddled on the couch.
Graham takes in the news as he moves to the stairs.
He takes a seat on the second to last step.
He sits obscured by the balusters.
The words hang in the air.
Graham sits quietly on the second step of the stairs.
All four put their hands in the air.
They lower them and sit in silence.
Merrill stands and leans against the wall.
Everyone sits quietly for a moment.
Merrill glances at Graham.
Graham turns and looks at Merrill.
They stare at each other quietly.
They have a conversation without words.
The sink is piled with pots and pans.
It seems like every utensil and dish in the kitchen was used.
One side of the dinning room is lined with windows that have been boarded up.
The table is set.
The Hess family sits around the table.
Morgan's face is hard, but tears start to fall anyway.
Graham watches as both his children cry at the table.
Graham takes big scoops of every dish and piles it on his plate.
He digs his fork into the pile and starts to shove it in his mouth.
He swallows.
Merrill pounds furiously with his hammer as he nails boards to the children's bedroom door.
The master bedroom door is open with a board leaning next to it.
Graham is inside his bedroom .
Graham walks to the window next to his bed.
It's the same one we've looked out twice before.
Graham looks out onto his backyard.
Graham's eyes stay locked on the crops which go on and on into darkness.
He moves closer to the glass.
Watches the top of the corn stalks swaying slightly with the wind.
Graham backs away from the window towards the middle of his bedroom.
Graham turns to see Merrill standing with the last board in the hall.
Graham moves out into the hall and shuts the bedroom door behind him.
Merrill immediately puts the wooden board up and starts hammering nails into the frame.
Graham picks up his hammer and quietly begins to hammer nails into the wood.
Graham glances to his right as he works.
Bo and Morgan are standing together at the top of the stairs.
Bo holds Morgan's hand.
Graham keeps hammering as he speaks.
Graham stops hammering.
Merrill keeps going.
Graham smiles to himself as he remembers the moment.
Merrill finishes hammering.
Graham looks at his daughter quietly.
He brushes the hair out of her face as Merrill moves to Morgan and picks him up.
All four turn and look at the three boarded up bedroom doors.
Merrill puts down Morgan.
Graham puts Bo down in the hallway.
She stands close to him.
The four of them stand quietly in a tight group.
Morgan looks at his father, unable to speak.
All four look up.
Merrill looks up the stairs at the boarded bedroom doors.
Graham takes Morgan's hand.
Graham smiles down at his son who smiles gently back.
The group of four turns and watches the top of the stairs.
Merrill's eyes moves quietly above the bedroom doors, to the ceiling of the upstairs hallway.
He stares at a rectangle in the ceiling.
A tiny rope hangs from the rectangle.
Morgan and Bo are frozen watching a set of long fingers reach under the front door.
THE COLOR OF THE FINGERS CHANGESTHE COLOR OF THE FINGERS CHANGES TO THE EXACT COLOR AND TEXTURE OF THE YELLOW CRACKED PAINT ON THE DOOR.
Graham and Merrill arrive in the front hall.
Graham takes Morgan and Bo by the hand and leads them quickly down the hall.
Merrill backs away as he watches the top of the stairs.
Graham comes down the last few steps and enters the basement.
Graham closes the door behind him.
 It has no lock.
The basement is lined with metal shelves.
The shelves are cluttered with all sorts of canned goods, extension cords, cleaning supplies, decorations, outdoor tools.
Merrill rummages through the shelves frantically.
Graham puts his ear to the door and listens.
Merrill moves to another set of shelves.
He starts knocking things to the ground.
There is SCRATCHING AGAINST THE DOOR.
The doorknob turns.
Graham grabs it with both hands.
The door begins to push open.
 A single light bulb hangs from a wire in the ceiling which is the only light in the room
Merrill reaches between two stacks of shelves and pulls out a pick for digging in the ground which has a three-foot wooden handle.
 He holds it up in the air.
Merrill turns and rushes in Graham's direction
Merrill CLIPS THE LIGHT BULB with the end of the wooden handle as he crosses the room.
Merrill turns the channel knob and checks all the stations.
He listens to the LIGHT HUM FROM THE SPEAKERS.
GRAHAM STEPS INTO THE BEAM OF LIGHTS.
He looks at the door and then turns and faces the lights.
Graham looks at Merrill's corner of the darkness.
Morgan moves his BEAM ONTO MERRILL.
Morgan puts the FLASHLIGHT ON THE GROUND AND ROLLS IT ACROSS .
THE FLASHLIGHT COMES TO A STOP IN GRAHAM'S PALM.
 He picks it up.
Merrill slowly catches his breath.
He reaches over to his side and grabs the remaining flashlight.
HE TRAINS THE BEAM .
Merrill looks at his nephew turning gray.
Graham pulls Morgan closer to his body and talks into the child's ear.
Morgan's throat is closing, his face is filled with strain and panic.
Merrill stares at his brother's desperate face.
Graham closes his eyes, talks to the darkness.
Merrill's eyes fill up with water.
Graham's eyes close.
Graham's eyes open as he leans in close to Morgan's ear.
Graham's eyes close.
He starts crying.
He speaks to no one.
Graham nods without looking over.
THE BEAM POINTS UP AT THE BASEMENT CEILING ABOVE .
Graham stares at the conviction in his younger brother's expression.
Graham looks at Morgan lying limp on the ground.
Graham turns to Merrill.
The two men stand under the single dangling light bulb.
Graham quietly turns and looks at Morgan.
He moves across the room towards him.
Merrill watches as Graham kneels down and reaches to Morgan's side.
Graham unclips the baby monitor from his son's belt.
Graham walks back to Merrill.
Graham makes eye contact with Merrill.
He holds it out between them.
He turns it ON.
ELECTRICAL STATIC.
The basement door cracks open a few inches.
Merrill opens it all the way.
Merrill moves up the stairs by himself.
He reaches the top and looks around.
Turns back down to the faces at the bottom.
Gives them the thumbs up.
He carries a limp Morgan in his arms.
Merrill nods as he begins to search the piles of things that have fallen from the cabinets.
Graham gently lays Morgan on the sofa.
Bo steps out of the closet and looks into the family room.
Graham glances down.
Graham looks up quickly.
Graham touches her cheek.
She starts crying.
Colleen presses her cheek on top of Graham's hand.
She rests on it.
Her eyes are distant.
Graham's eyes are not on Merrill.
Merrill turns and looks to Graham.
Merrill follows his eye line to the baseball bat mounted above him.
Merrill reaches up and takes the bat off its resting place.
The creature starts to move.
Merrill's hands tighten around the handle as he walks forward.
He stops.
His weight shifts to his right leg.
Morgan's face is obscured by gas.
The creature begins to turn and becomes more visible as its lines and colors don't match in position in the room.
Merrill's left leg goes out.
The creature gets HAMMERED across the back with the baseball bat.
Morgan is dropped.
He falls to the carpet of the family room in an unnatural crumpled pile.
His arms and legs flop lifelessly to the carpet.
The creature turns to face Merrill.
All the creature sees is the BLUR OF WOOD as Merrill swings like a lumberjack.
SLAM.
The creature falls to the ground.
Graham picks up his son's limp body in his arms.
The creature moves to its feet.
Merrill's hands choke up on the bat.
Graham leans down and picks up the full syringe of medicine on the ground.
His powerful muscles pull his shoulders whipping around.
The bat connects with the creature across its chest.
Two glass of water fall off a shelf and CRASH ONTO THE CREATURE'S SHOULDER.
The bat slices through the air of the family room.
Merrill and Bo find Graham kneeling in the grass.
Morgan lays limp in his arms.
Merrill stares at Morgan.
His body is utterly still.
Merrill sees the empty syringe in Graham's hand.
Merrill reaches for Morgan's still hand.
He looks to Morgan.
The boy's head is tilted back.
His tiny mouth hangs open unnaturally.
Bo is crying.
Graham starts crying.
Every bit of sadness trapped in his body is released.
He looks down through tears and tears at Morgan.
We look out through the broken glass of the second story bedroom window.
We see the worn jungle gym.
We see the single tree throwing shade on the picnic table.
We see the golden brown corn lining the back of the yard.
And we see the Hess family.
Sitting together on the grass.
Huddled together in the sunlight.
Mathison puts down his shopping bags and moves to her.
He kneels down and gestures for the bundle of sweatshirts in her arms.
The woman smiles for the first time.
She hands him the wrapped child.
The doctor lowers the baby to his lap and unwraps him.
The woman can't see her baby anymore.
She watches Dr. 
Mathison as he looks down and examines her child.
The doctor finally glances up.
He looks shaken.
He makes eye contact with the woman for only a second.
A chill goes through her body.
He looks to the three saleswomen who were in the room.
His hard stare unsettles the women.
The OLDER SALESWOMAN speaks up.
Everyone becomes very still.
The mother looks like she stopped breathing.
The BABY SCREAMS. 
The doctor whispers something to himself, we can't hear.
He looks up to the saleswoman who brought him in.
Mathison turns back to the mother.
The woman looks over the one being offered and then points to the Sports Illustrated peeking out of the seat pocket.
David pulls the magazine out and gives it to her.
David waits till the opposing train passes.
The woman goes back to her magazine.
KELLY looks up from her Sports Illustrated.
Her striking blue eyes gaze at David.
She holds up her hand.
Taps the diamond ring on her finger.
An awkward silence.
Kelly gets up.
She balances herself against a headrest as the train rumbles.
She starts to the back of the car.
David sits alone.
He looks like he's drowning, but there's no water.
He feels a stare.
He glances up.
The little girl spies on him from between the seats.
David leans towards the window to avoid eye contact.
His hand reaches into his coat and slides out his wedding band.
He puts it back on.
The vibration of the train begins to lull his eyes closed.
David's head bounces lightly against the window.
The shaking of the glass never allows David's eyes to completely close.
He sits up when he realizes the shaking is getting stronger.
He looks out the window.
The scenery blurs as it flies by.
David turns.
Some of the other passengers start to react as they realize the train is picking up speed.
The normal bumps of the tracks become amplified.
The train goes faster.
David's eyes move to the seat in front of him.
The little girl is no longer watching him.
DAVID LOOKS TO THE PASSENGERS ACROSS FROM HIM.
He sees the ground slowly drop away in the windows behind them as.
A boy, age ten, sits on his head on the family couch and watches television upside down.
His floppy brown hair spreads out in a circle in front of his red face.
He changes channels with a remote control.
He moves past the upside down cartoons and the upside down talk shows.
He stops on an upside down picture of a crashed train.
His knees come forward as he flips over.
He tumbles slowly off the couch and onto the carpet.
Joseph DUNNE gazes at the television screen.
A LIVE AERIAL VIEW OF A TRAIN WRECK SMOULDERING BELOW IS SEEN.
Two trains are tangled like snakes.
Joseph gets up and moves to a small table with a phone.
Next to the phone is a notepad.
WE ARE IN A PHYSICAL THERAPY CENTER.
About a dozen people are on specialized weight machines.
The elderly woman is seated on an exercise table and breathes slowly.
Audrey looks away.
The ancient secretary's right hand immediately picks up a pen and positions it over a blank pad.
Her left hand keeps typing.
She never looks up.
Rain falls in sheets in the stadium.
David stands at the entrance to a tunnel that empties out onto the field.
He stands in an imposing dark green rain poncho and hood.
The poncho almost touches the ground.
The word 'security' on the back has almost faded away.
We can barely see David's face under the hood.
There is a football game in progress on the enormous field.
The players seem unusually small.
David steps out into the rain.
David turns on the bench.
The room is still.
They both stand awkwardly for a moment.
Audrey tries to mask her reaction to the oddness of the question.
Elijah just sits staring at the dark television screen.
Elijah's face is tense.
Unyielding.
Elijah's mother says the next words in almost a whisper.
Elijah's eyes move from the television to his mother.
He sees the emotion in her face.
Neither says anything for a while.
Elijah thinks it over.
Elijah looks at his mother with disbelief.
Elijah walks across the playground.
He's very wary of the other children running about him.
He walks towards the bench with the present on it.
Takes a seat.
Puts the package on his lap.
It's flat.
The edges of the bend down over his thin legs.
He undoes the white bow.
He peels off the clear tape holding the brown paper together.
He unfolds the paper.
Elijah stares down at the single comic book in his lap.
He feels the shadow of his mother.
She takes a seat next to him.
Elijah looks to his mother.
His intelligent piercing eyes take her in for a moment.
He looks back down at his lap.
He opens the first page.
Two figures are depicted on the top of a building locked in fierce battle.
One figure is extremely muscular with a mask.
The other is half human, half animal.
Elijah glances at the BUSINESS MAN standing next to him and then back to the sketch.
The business man rubs his face.
Gazes at the sketch.
Elijah starts to the back of the store which we now see is some type of art gallery where all the framed pictures are images and sketches from comic books.
Elijah jams his walking stick into the extra thick carpet and stops.
He turns.
Elijah starts back to the businessman shaking his head strongly.
Elijah's eyes pierce through the shaken man.
Elijah points at the sketch.
Elijah turns and faces the customers for the first time.
David Dunne stands with Joseph.
Elijah just stands staring for the longest time.
He walks closer to them.
When Elijah speaks, his voice has a whispery quality to it.
David nods.
Elijah looks shaken.
Elijah gazes at David.
Elijah points at the framed comic sketches.
David shakes his head.
He smiles out of frustration.
Elijah watches David walk towards the front door.
Elijah watches through the window as Joseph takes David's hand as they cross the street.
Elijah gazes out the window in a bit of a daze.
David sits up in bed staring at a torn section of newspaper in his hands.
Joseph is asleep horizontally with his legs over David's legs.
David slides out from under his son's legs.
Joseph stirs but doesn't wake up.
David moves to the darkness of the corner of the room.
He opens a closet door.
A NAKED HANGING BULB GOES ON as David yanks a chain.
David steps inside the narrow closet and closes the door slightly so the LIGHT FROM THE BULB DOESN'T FALL ON Joseph.
There's just enough room to stand and look around.
David stretches as he feels on the top shelf.
His hand comes down with something wrapped in a t-shirt.
He unwraps it.
It's a handgun.
He stares at it for a beat before wrapping it back up and replacing it to the highest shelf.
He stretches even more.
Reaches farther back.
He pulls down a folder jammed with clippings.
He opens the folder to reveal a young David in football uniform holding his helmet in the air victoriously.
David flips through the top clippings all are images and stories of David and football.
He turns the pile over.
Goes to the last clipping.
This piece of paper is folded over three times, unlike the others.
It's a newspaper headline.
David puts the new headline next to the old one.
They look like a set.
Even the font is similar.
David stares at the old headline.
Stares hard at the photo of the bent and heavily damaged car laying upside down in the middle of the highway.
David gets startled.
He puts back the clippings.
Stuffing the new one inside with them.
He replaces it back to the top shelf and leaves the closet.
He opens the door.
Audrey stands in the darkened hall.
Audrey nods.
David stares at his wife.
She starts crying.
Tears roll over her very affected face.
She tries to wipe them away, but there's too many.
Audrey nods and walks down the stairs as she wipes her face.
David watches her disappear into the shadows.
The cavernous stadium opens up into a picture perfect blue sky.
A line of ticket holders snakes towards two turnstiles where stadium crew are ripping tickets.
David Dunne stands to one side with two other security guards.
The fans moving through the turnstiles are clad in all types of Eagles paraphernalia.
A group of girls carries a homemade banner that David reads as he tilts his head sideways.
David stares at a woman carrying a newborn infant in her arms.
The baby is wearing an eagles uniform.
The WALKIE TALKIE on David's hip bursts to life.
He pulls it off his hip an listens.
David bumps a guy in line wearing an army jacket.
David looks backs at him and continues walking.
David moves to a security guard near the turnstiles.
David walks to his post near the gate and faces the crowd.
Elijah moves next to him.
Elijah observes as a security team pats down random males as they move through the turnstiles.
The GREEN ARMY JACKETED MAN moves forward in the line.
His face is blank as he watches the pat down ahead of him.
He's twenty people from the turnstile.
David eyes him.
Fifteen people away.
Ten.
The man coughs and steps out of the line.
Elijah watches the green army jacket melt into the thick part of the crowd and disappear as it moves away from the stadium.
AN UNLIT arched concrete passageway.
The SUNLIGHT from the stadium streams in causing long shadows.
Elijah stands waiting in the ground tunnel by himself.
David enters the tunnel and joins Elijah.
He hands him a ticket.
Elijah stares at David.
David exhales slowly as he stares at Elijah.
David's WALKIE ERUPTS WITH NOISE.
The two men stand very still in the tunnel.
David turns and starts down the hall.
David talks back over his shoulder.
Elijah watches as the silhouetted figure of David Dunne jogs down the darkness of the tunnel.
We are inside a customized car.
The dashboard is covered in some sort of thin foam padding.
The steering wheel and gear shift have the same padding.
Every corner and hard surface has been safe guarded.
Elijah sits behind the wheel of his car in the parking lot of the stadium.
He sits as thoughts crash at his head.
He finally reaches for the keys and starts up the car.
He looks into the rearview mirror and sees the man in the GREEN ARMY JACKET pass behind his car.
Elijah quickly turns and sees the man moving through the parked cars heading out of the parking lot.
Elijah takes a deep breath and turns off the engine.
The figure in the army jacket seems to move farther away with every step.
Elijah starts breathing harder.
He pushes himself to move faster.
He avoids the hard chrome bumpers and tailpipes that jut out from the cars as he quickens his pace through the lot.
He gains on the army jacket.
The man in the army jacket turns as he reaches a subway entrance that marks the end of the parking lot.
He disappears into the subway entrance.
Elijah quickens into a jog now.
He hasn't done this in a while and it's painful.
He makes it with great strain to the subway.
He looks into the entrance.
A steep flight of stairs leads to the subway floor.
The tail of the army jacket is glimpsed before it disappears.
Elijah breathes hard as he takes hold of the railing.
Elijah starts his descent.
Elijah has to move fast.
He takes the steps with less and less hesitation.
He's moving with great agility.
and then his foot catches on a step.
His hand slips away from the railing.
He falls down the remaining part of the stairs.
He comes to a stop in a pile on the dirty gum stained floor of the subway landing.
His jaw is locked in a.
His contorted anguished face sees the turnstiles of the subway upside down.
The green army jacketed man looks back at Elijah with a blank expression pushing through the turnstile.
The last thing Elijah sees before he blacks out, is the tail of the man's coat riding up as he move through the turnstile.
The SILVER HANDLE OF A GUN peeks out from the belt of his pants.
David's neighborhood turns crimson as the day comes to an end.
The Septa bus pulls to a stop in front of a public high school.
David steps off, still in his security clothes.
David turns to the high school football field behind him.
A group of children are having a touch football game.
Joseph runs out from the huddle across the field to David.
Joseph nods.
David looks to the fields to see a very muscular college age man in sweats who stands with the other children.
David stares at his son.
David watches the cornerback being surrounded by kids.
He's letting a couple of the kids feel his flexed bicep.
Joseph turns back to his father and takes his hand.
David looks down at his son who waits patiently.
David twists around and looks back at the barbell.
He counts up the black metal circles.
He turns back to Joseph.
David looks back at the weights.
Joseph starts back to the barbell.
Joseph is breathing hard again as he finishes with the weights and comes around to David.
David lays back.
David takes hold of the bar.
Lifts it off the armrest.
Brings it down.
His arms are straining hard again.
He raises it and lowers it two time; it takes a sizable effort.
The weights bang down onto the armrest.
David sits up.
David turns completely around and looks at the barbell.
He counts the black discs on the steel bar.
David just stares at the black steel circles on the metal bar.
They both stare at the weight.
Joseph moves back to the bottom of the stairs leading up to the house.
He waits.
Another deep breath as David heaves.
The weight CLINKS as it comes off the arm rest.
David is full out straining now as he lowers and raises it.
His arms begin to tremble as he lifts it for the second time.
He looks at his son whose eyes are wide.
An enormous amount of black discs sits on the bar.
David's hands are gripping the metal.
He talks to Joseph who stands in his position at the bottom of the stairs without looking at him.
He takes one last breath.
CLINK the weights comes off the rest.
His arms are trembling immediately now.
His face is locked in a grimace as he brings the bar down to his chest and back up again two times before dropping it onto the armrest.
A set of two unopened MAB satin finish paint cans are dangling by their metal handles on the outside of each side of the weights.
The fours cans sway a little as the bar is heaved off of David's chest.
His arms are shaking hard.
David sits up and turns back to the weights.
His mouth moves as he calculates the discs and the cans.
His lips stop moving.
It takes a second for David to register the question.
Elijah just keeps staring.
Elijah's head nods the slightest bit up and down.
The PHYSICIAN'S WORDS FADE AWAY as Elijah continues to gaze at an abstract point in the room.
A CO-WORKER finds Audrey working with an elderly gentleman who's laboring on a stationary bike.
The co-worker takes Audrey's position by the elderly man.
Audrey crosses the physical therapy center.
She walks up to him with a smile.
Elijah's leg is immobilized by a metal brace and held straight.
Under his shirt we see the wrappings around his ribs.
Audrey is taken off guard by the question.
She stares at Elijah.
Elijah smiles warmly.
Audrey smiles softly back.
Elijah smiles even bigger.
Audrey's eyes become utterly still.
David stands at the lip of a tunnel that opens out onto the upper section of the second level.
Waves of people move from their seats through the tunnel to the bathrooms and concession stands and back again.
David stares to the side away from the movement, his shoulder leaned up against the wall.
His shoulder leaves the wall.
He STEPS OUT into the stream of people.
Shoulders and arms bump into him and brush by him as they move.
David's eyes are looking down -- his expression still -- like he's listening.
He's in the heaviest part of the movement now.
Fans continue to brush against him as they pass.
And then it happens.
A stocky woman bumps into him.
Joseph turns to the thermometer boy.
David nods.
David stares at the white haired nurse.
David stares at the woman.
David seems lost in his thoughts.
He looks up at the nurse.
Joseph finally looks up.
Tears in his eyes.
David moves closer to Joseph on the bench.
Joseph just stares at his father.
David is rinsing out the bowl when Audrey walks in.
David turns off the water.
Audrey sees David's shocked expression.
Audrey turns around.
She SCREAMS. 
He's crying hard.
In his outstretched hands is the HAND GUN FROM DAVID'S CLOSET.
It's pointed directly at David.
David shoots a tense glance at Audrey.
David starts moving a little to his right.
Joseph follows him with the barrel of the handgun.
David stops moving.
Joseph stops moving.
Joseph's small face tenses.
Confusion mixes with the desperation on his face.
Joseph looks up, tears streaming down his cheeks.
Joseph starts pressing the trigger.
The hammer clicks back.
Joseph freezes.
David flashes a desperate glance at Audrey then back to Joseph.
David becomes still as his words register.
David looks unsteady all of the sudden.
Elijah seems shaken for the first time.
David stares at him coldly.
The top of the man's head doesn't move.
Ponytail man closes his register and walks towards the back.
As he gets closer to the customer, he realizes that the man is in a wheelchair.
The Ponytail man walks ups to Elijah.
He sits in his chair in a quiet daze.
Ponytail man leans over.
The Ponytail man shakes his head moves behind Elijah.
He starts wheeling him towards the front of the store.
They move down a narrow aisle of comics.
Elijah suddenly grabs the left wheel and turns the chair.
His immobilized left leg hits a rack of comic books.
A handful of comics tumbles to the ground.
The ponytail man straightens the wheelchair and starts down the aisle again.
After a couple of feet, Elijah jerks and grabs the other wheel sending the wheelchair ramming violently into the opposite wall.
Comics are knocked free and fall onto the wheel chair and the nearby ground.
They move down the aisle.
All is quiet.
And then Elijah jerks the wheelchair to the left again.
His metal brace and the wheelchair crash into two racks.
Elijah gets covered in comics.
The Ponytail man moves to the front counter.
Elijah sits in a trance -- slightly hunched over.
His eyes stare at a comic book in his lap.
His expression changes for the first time.
The Ponytail man finishes dialing.
He looks over to Elijah as he waits for a voice on the other end.
Elijah raises a single comic book in his hand.
A trendy restaurant.
David and Audrey are on stools at one end of the bat.
They sip their drinks as they appear in deep thought.
Audrey leans slightly closer.
David's grin slowly fades.
They're only a foot or so apart.
David sips his drink slowly.
David glances at Audrey.
She waits for his answer.
Audrey's face tenses.
She's on the verge of getting upset.
Audrey's eyes glaze with water.
David's eyes look up and make eye contact with Audrey's.
He stares at her for the longest time.
Husband and wife sit close together in the corner of the bar on their second date.
Audrey stands next to David as he pulls out his wallet.
The babysitter with the black dyed hair and Buddy Holly glasses stands ready to leave in the doorway.
Audrey tries to hide her smile.
The smile instantly fades.
The babysitter fixes her Buddy Holly glasses as she looks at the two suddenly quiet faces.
David hands her the money.
She opens the door.
It's started to rain.
The babysitter covers her head with her jacket and runs down the walkway.
She closes the door.
Audrey takes off her coat as she moves to the guest bedroom.
She disappears inside.
Only the COUNTER LIGHT is on in the kitchen.
David stands by the phone.
The driver of the truck slips and slides his way over to David.
David looks at Audrey who lays shivering in the grass.
He looks back at the driver.
Elijah closes his eyes.
His face fills with strength.
The interior of the station is a mystical sight.
One huge cavernous room, a football field in size, lined on both sides with giant pillars that rise into a misty hand painted ceiling.
David stands in a quiet corner and watches the faces of passengers arriving and departing late night trains.
Even at the late hour, there is heavy traffic throughout the station.
David's eyes dart up as the slicked haired man turns the corner at the information booth.
He watches him for a beat.
David watches the teenager with baggy jeans hanging off his hip.
He walks and greets a group of identically dressed friends.
David turns his hands back in.
He seems shaken.
He takes a couple of deep breaths as he gathers himself.
Then David steps back to look around.
HE BUMPS the shoulder of a man standing behind him.
David takes a sudden breath like someone punched him in the solar plexus.
The enormous glassy eyed man takes hold of the screen door handle.
He turns it.
The man inside the house grabs the door handle on the inside to stop him.
The man inside the house uses all his strength to keep the door from opening.
It opens slowly anyway.
David stands frozen in the train station.
His face is almost unreadable.
David is standing less than a foot away from the man he bumped.
They're standing shoulder to shoulder.
David's eyes slowly move from the ground over his right and then finally onto the man.
He's huge.
At least three inches taller than David.
His shoulders are massive.
He's wearing a one piece ORANGE UNIFORM.
The man in the orange uniform leans over a trashcan next to him and removes the full trash bag within it.
He replaces it with a fresh one.
He throws the full trash bag into a gray plastic bin with wheels and starts pushing it.
Four identical gray bins sit outside the door.
The huge man disappears with his bin inside.
David waits.
He just stares hard at the double doors.
And then they open.
The huge glassy eyed man in orange emerges carrying a bag over his shoulder.
He's wearing a baseball hat with his uniform now.
He heads toward a back exit.
David lets him get about twenty feet away before deciding to follow him.
The man in the orange uniform walks in the driving rain down a residential city block.
Almost all the lights in the middle class homes he's passing are off at this late hour.
The orange figure turns the corner onto a block of modest stand alone homes.
The uniformed man walks slower in this block.
He looks around carefully as he moves.
He turns into a driveway of one of the homes.
He stops and pulls a wad of mail out of the mailbox.
David stands with the hood of his security coat covering his head and face.
He stands in the shadows and watches silently as the man in the orange uniform looks over his massive shoulder before turning a knob and entering the white paneled house through a familiar side door with a screen on it.
The side door opens with almost no sound.
The hooded figure of David Dunne steps into a narrow laundry room.
A very large pile of unopened mail sits in a mound on the clothes dryer.
Two or three days worth.
David stares out from under his hood at the mess.
Cabinets are left open.
The breakfast table is the eeriest thing in the room.
It sits frozen with a plate of half-eaten, now moldy eggs at one setting and two bowls of colorful cereal in another.
David moves slowly to a door in the kitchen.
It's slightly open.
As David gets closer, he shields his face from the strong smell.
He pulls the door open quietly.
BASEMENT.
At the bottom of the stairs is a MAN'S BODY.
The same man who answered the door in the flashback lays partly in the shadow, partly in the light.
His crumpled tie lies folded over itself on his still chest.
David steps into the unoccupied room.
His movements are slow and tense.
David looks up and follows the SOUND AS IT MOVES AROUND ABOVE.
David moves to the stairs as SOMEONE GETS KNOCKED OUT ON THE.
Three closed doors converge on a landing.
David opens the closest one.
It's a young girl's room.
Posters of boy bands are on her wall.
Clothes are everywhere.
The room is empty.
A slightly overweight girl, probably fourteen years old is tied by her wrists with a phone cord to the metal towel rack in her bathroom.
She sits with her arms pointed upward over her head.
He knees tucked up to her chest.
Next to her is her younger brother.
A skinny boy, maybe twelve.
He's tied and seated in the same way.
Their heads are leaned back against their arms.
They're completely listless.
Eyes half mast.
They watch as the door to the bathroom opens and the dark hooded figure of David Dunne steps in.
His long dark slowing rain poncho still dripping water.
He stands in the doorway for a moment before moving towards them.
They're arms flop to their laps as they gaze up at the figure leaning over them.
They boy blinks once slowly.
David takes a step back and stares at them from under his hood.
David stares at the drawing.
David turns and looks at the striking and beautiful African American woman in her sixties who stands next to him.
The woman turns and looks at David for the first time.
David looks across the store at Elijah talking with the customers.
They both watch Elijah from across the room.
David watches as Elijah's mother walks across the store and waits for Elijah to finish talking.
David turns back to the framed sketch.
He sits in the shadows.
He's seated in some type of machine.
There are lots of buttons and levers on the machine.
The machine has wheels.
He looks across the room to Elijah seated in his wheelchair.
Elijah's large eyes stay focused on the customer's as he finishes negotiating.
David takes two unsteady steps back.
Elijah has tears in his eyes as he gazes down at the newspaper.
He looks up to David.
Santa pushes him off his lap and shoves him on his way.
The Elf nods as he peels off a pointed prosthetic ear.
Santa pulls a fifth of Old Grandad from the cushions of his throne.
He takes a swig.
With the sound of closing circuits, banks of lights systematically shut down in the various departments of the now empty store.
Downstairs the last of the store employees file out the door past an old SECURITY GUARD.
Eventually Santa emerges.
The Security Guard heads for a panel near the doorway and punches a key labeled ARM.
The guard exits the store, locks the door and heads home.
Suddenly - it moves, bolting upright and sprinting from the room.
The alarm continues to count down -- The Teddy bear slides down the space between the railing of the escalators.
The Teddy bear scrambles for the door, crashing into everything in its path.
Running past a clothing display, it rips the arm off a mannequin without breaking stride.
It skids to a stop at the base of the alarm box, too short to reach the controls.
Mission accomplished, the teddy bear rips off its head to reveal his true identity: Santa's Elf -- in civilian life known as MARCUS SKIDMORE.
He is covered in sweat and panting like an asthmatic.
A hasp flips open and Marcus swings the door wide to reveal a beer-guzzling Santa-in-the-off-season known as WILLIE T. SOKE.
He finishes the beer, crushes the can and drops it to his feet next to eight more empties.
Marcus sneers at him as he lumbers past.
Marcus reaches into jewelry cases and removes a few particular items.
He drops them into a stock cart then checks a typed list before moving on.
Marcus pushes the cart through the store, gathering an odd array of items that range from furs to gowns to shoes to makeup.
Marcus arrives outside a doorway and looks in to see Willie manning a large water drill and putting it to work on the store's vault.
Marcus moves closer as Willie pulls back the drill on the track.
He places a screwdriver into the exposed lock assembly and hits it with a sledgehammer.
Suddenly, the door swings open and bundled cash spills to the floor.
Both men are impressed.
Willie settles on the rear bench as Marcus gets into the passenger seat next to his Pillipina Mail-order wife of several years, LOIS, who is dressed in expensively ugly clothes, and whose mouth is ever down-turned in pruney distaste.
The van speeds away through the Christmas Eve night and disappears into the distance, like the down of a thistle.
of An alarm clock ringing with a jolt.
Willie, in bed, blearily wakes to the insistent alarm.
He tries to turn it off, but his fingers are still clotted with sleep.
In a series of frustrated grunts and groans he becomes more and more aggravated until, finally.
One final scream and it's out of his system.
He finds one last bottle in his hand, half-full with a cigarette butt floating in it.
He downs the beer and steps into the adjoining bathroom to brush his teeth.
Willie's walk brings him to a fancy eatery at lunchtime.
As he passes, he casually snatches a handful of car keys from the parking valet key-box and moves on.
As he rounds the corner into the lot he pushes on the various key fobs, identifying various cars when their alarms chirp.
He seems dissatisfied until a brand new Cadillac chirps.
Willie gets in and drives off.
Willie drives.
He reaches over into the glove compartment and pulls out the registration.
He focuses on the car owner's address.
In long shot, through the open door of an extravagant marble bathroom, we see Willie sitting on the toilet, leafing through a magazine, beer bottle on the counter next to him.
Pants around his ankles.
Willie, standing by the toilet, finishes buckling his belt and flips the flush lever.
Willie, looking down into the toilet, gives the lever a couple more clanking tries, and then grabs his beer and ambles off.
Sucking on his beer, Willie paces the periphery of the room, methodically knocking painting after painting off the walls.
Willie arrives in the bedroom still knocking down paintings until, finally, he exposes a wall safe.
A smile, and he pulls out a stethoscope.
The safe door swings open to reveal stacks of cash.
Willie scratches a lottery ticket.
He's now wearing a Rolex and some gaudy ring.
As she exits, he activates the machine.
Willie skips to the next message.
Through the heat ripples rising off the pavement two mirage- like figures cross the infinite asphalt of the Saguaro Square Mall parking lot -- Willie and Marcus in Santa and Elf regalia, sweating and panting in the heat.
Willie polishes off a pint of Smirnoff's and flips it towards a nearby trash can.
He pulls some Tic Tacs out of his pocket.
Harrison stomps away and right toward Marcus and Willie as they enter the store.
Willie and Marcus stop in their tracks and watch the burly man storm out.
Bob Chipeska watches with them.
A Beautiful Girl wearing skin-tight pants walks by, catching Willie's eye.
He stares wantonly at her ass, off in his own little world.
Willie's reaction worries Marcus.
Marcus pantomimes helpless laughter, noiselessly throwing his head back and holding his gut as it heaves with mirth.
He is instantly composed.
Rudolfo the Red Nosed Burro is tended by several Santa's elf mannequins.
One in cowboy wear and another in a poncho and sombrero.
Again there is a line of waiting children.
Marcus makes his way through the line as kids gasp and cheer.
He plays to the crowd.
He takes a bottle from the floor by his feet and swigs off it.
Marcus stares at him.
He grabs the hat, slams it into Willie's chest and, as Willie rises, kicks him in the ass.
On the outskirts of the Saguaro Square Mall's parking lot a city bus stops with a hiss.
The doors swing open to reveal a pathetic EIGHT-YEAR-OLD KID, overweight, snot-nosed, badly dressed and probably smelling of pee.
As the kid nears the mall entrance he passes a group of older children doing skateboard stunts.
They notice him.
Marcus puts another young boy on his lap.
Marcus walks over to the rope.
The snot-nosed Kid is next in line, frozen by fear.
This penetrates the Kid's fear.
He moves.
Marcus leads the Kid up to the throne and places him on Willie's lap.
The Kid just stares, motionless except for the flowing rivulet of snot.
Willie can't help but stare at it.
Suddenly the Kid is moved to yank Willie's beard.
He holds it stretched below Willie's chin.
Willie shoves the Kid.
The Kid backs away, looking at him.
The Kid backs away in awe, never breaking his reverent stare.
The Kid sits on a bench watching the entrance to Chamberlain's.
After a beat Willie and Marcus walk out in costume and cross toward the parking lot.
The Kid follows from a safe distance.
Willie and Marcus walk across the huge empty parking lot, followed at a great distance by the Kid.
As the Kid creeps closer, he is able to hear their conversation.
A large faux rustic bar filled to capacity with loosened-tie middle-management.
We follow his gaze all around the perimeter of the room until it connects with the drunken, glowering face of a HINDUSTANI TROUBLEMAKER, sitting right across from him, startling Willie for a moment.
She pours two.
They both pound them back.
As she pours.
Willie stares at her.
The man stares at him for a beat.
The Troublemaker stops and looks down to find the Kid beating on his legs.
Willie gets a chance to regain composure.
The Kid sits in the front seat next to Willie who drives, stewing.
Willie answers absently, his head slightly ducked and his eyes darting side to side, checking for road signs.
Willie escorts the Kid along a long walkway that leads to the front door of a large, opulent, new-money Southwestern home.
Willie admires the surroundings.
Grandma rises from her chair with the assistance of her walker and begins to move toward Willie.
She wears a bathrobe and thick glasses and has another pair of glasses on a chain around her neck.
He watches as the senile old woman innocently putters away.
He yanks off his mask and turns to the Kid.
The Kid shakes his head.
The Kid shakes his head.
The sound of a tumbler tripping and, suddenly, light sweeps in as the safe door opens to reveal a smiling Willie with his stethoscope in his ears.
In the foreground a few stacks of cash and a folio.
Willie reaches in.
Willie grabs the folio and flips through it.
At the cut a new Mercedes screeches through the frame and, as we hear it recede, we are left looking at the kid, who stands at the curb, waving happily.
Willie and Marcus walk to their cars.
Opal looks at him with disdain.
Reluctantly, she sidles over.
Willie is at a pay phone.
The Kid swings the door open to Willie, who stands on the stoop holding a small grip.
The Kid follows Willie like a puppy dog as Willie checks out the house, bumping open doors, looking around.
Willie has discovered the master bedroom, by appearances long unused.
He tosses his grip onto the double bed.
Willie lies in the tub, also motionless, a wet washcloth over his face, fingers of one hand resting against a tumbler filled with ice and amber liquid that sits on the edge of the tub.
From under his washcloth.
He drags the washcloth off his face and looks at the kid.
The Kid looks at him, unperturbed.
She glances in as the person passes and, still chewing, gets out her notebook and jots something down.
Willie stares at the board for a long beat.
He leaps up screaming and flings the board across the room.
ANGLE ON Kid's face, unfazed, still smiling.
The kid lies in bed, sleeping peacefully.
Willie bangs Sue in the Jacuzzi.
He is wearing his Santa hat.
Blearily she gazes back.
He closes the door.
He then tips back the bottle and polishes it off with a series of quick gulps.
Ever so daintily, he puts the bottle down.
A beat later -- WHAM! He faints dead away, hitting the floor like a felled tree.
Willie wakes on the floor to the sound of the scream.
A bedroom door crashes open and the Kid emerges screaming and runs right into Willie.
He immediately caroms off and goes screaming down the hall.
He turns the corner to the hall, There is a row of fresh, bloody palm-prints down one side of the hall.
The Kid, screaming, is just disappearing at the far end.
Willie follows.
Willie enters.
He goes up and tries to yank the hand, which the hysterical Kid yanks away.
As Willie drags him to the sink and runs water over the cut, the Kid takes great gulping breaths and finally manages to say.
Willie grabs a vodka bottle standing open on the counter and liberally pours some on the hand.
The Kid shrieks.
It is early morning and the parking lot is empty except for Marcus' van.
The Mercedes eventually pulls in, parking beside him.
Marcus throws open the back of the van, revealing the components of the water drill in various prop gift boxes.
Willie wears a forbearing smile.
He shakes his head and chuckles as Marcus tosses him an empty red Santa sack.
Marcus stares.
Jesse, the security guard unlocks the door and opens up for Willie and Marcus.
They enter in costume.
Willie lugs the filled sack and seems to be straining.
As Willie and Marcus enter the store Gin Slagel drives by their cars, carefully noting their tags.
Willie drops the bag with a loud thud.
Willie follows Marcus behind the Wonderland backdrop.
Marcus points to an air duct in the ceiling.
He gets up and walks away.
Gin sits at his desk sucking in a Pall Mall filterless.
Bob Chipeska sits opposite.
A bus clears frame, revealing the kid as he walks toward the mall.
Cheering, the six bullies engulf the kid.
Marcus and Willie go about the business of being a Santa-Elf team.
Willie sees off another child.
Willie stares at him.
Marcus returns to the velvet rope to find Gin Slagel waiting stone-faced.
Marcus sighs.
Gin leaves.
Willie's eyes do not leave the spot in space.
The Kid turns to go.
Willie beckons him.
He displays an envelope.
The Kid's eye is indeed black and blue.
He reaches self- consciously up to it.
Willie, dreamy, refuses to take the bait.
Marcus stares at him.
Lois, her face set in pruney disapproval, flips slowly through a rack of furs.
She somehow senses his presence; without bothering to look around she murmurs.
Lois is in the driver's seat.
Gin's Ford 4 X 4 speeds around the corner and Marcus flags him down.
SCREEEEECH! Gin slams on the brakes, then backs up and pulls over.
He emerges from the 4 X 4 with road rage on full brew, and strides over to the van.
He shakes his head in disgust.
Grumbling, he goes back to the 4 X 4 and drives it into position.
He gets out and raises the hood.
The two vehicles face each other nose-to-nose, several feet apart as Gin opens the hood.
Marcus seems to have a little difficulty reaching the battery terminals.
Gin attaches the cables.
Then, leaning down to Gin.
Behind Jesse, in Men's Wear, is Lois, wearing a frown of pruney disapproval.
Seeing that he's not looking, she inexplicably nudges a table of sweaters a few feet over.
SQUEEEEEEEAK! The table makes a loud noise, but it's too chaotic on the floor for anyone to notice.
Satisfied with her placement of the table, Lois heads out the door.
Willie cracks open an ampule of Amyl Nitrate and inhales deeply.
Marcus grimaces.
Jesse heads for the alarm panel near the doorway and punches the key labeled ARM.
An LED readout labeled ARMING counts down from seconds.
Marcus arrives at the vent above the surveillance room.
He reaches in his pocket, pulls out the remote control Lois bought, and aims it down into the room.
The huge bank of VCRs powers down.
Marcus arrives at the precipice of a descending duct.
Willie stares at the safe.
Willie continues to stare at the safe.
He licks his lips.
Meanwhile, Marcus emerges from a stockroom with a cart to begin his shopping spree.
Willie applies a stethoscope to the safe, tapping with one hand and listening intently.
Marcus starts in Ladies' Accessories, finding the cashmere scarf.
Willie applies the drill to the safe.
Willie pulls back the drill.
Marcus is in Evening Wear, jumping to try to pull a stole off a mannequin.
Willie batters a chisel into the seam of the safe door.
Marcus continues to leap at the mannequin.
Willie is atop the safe, swinging a sledgehammer at the lock.
Marcus swings at the mannequin's knees with a golf club.
Willie uses a plasma welder on the safe.
Marcus, having chopped down the mannequin, drags off its stole.
Willie is back over the safe, battering it with the sledgehammer, roaring with each swing.
Willie is hunched at the back of the safe, stethoscope to its surface, giving exploratory taps with two knuckles.
Sound perspective through the stethoscope: hollow THUNKS followed by an unnaturally loud and present CREEEEEEEEAK.
Willie reacts quizzically.
After a considering moment he rises.
we can see, on the far side of the safe, its door as it finishes creaking open.
Marcus enters the room.
Willie looks at him.
Marcus starts removing stacks of cash and loading them into the Santa sack.
We are looking at a big, fuzzy, smiling, pink stuffed elephant.
Willie's hand hesitates between this elephant and the one behind, which is purple.
The hand finally leaves with the purple elephant.
The hand reenters to put back the purple and take the pink.
Willie turns around holding the stuffed elephant.
Marcus and Lois are standing there presenting a grotesque picture: Lois has a shopping cart filled with shoes, scarves, jewels, a salad spinner, purses, a block of Ginsu knives, an abdomen exerciser.
She wears a pair of sunglasses from which a price tag dangles, and a long ermine stole.
Next to her Marcus holds the Santa bag bulging with -- indeed, sprouting -- cash.
Something in this picture makes Willie uneasy.
He primes the gun.
Willie murmurs, more in sadness than in fear.
Marcus points the gun.
A silence.
Marcus sighs.
Willie stares.
Marcus looks wildly around.
He ducks, clutching the elephant to his chest, and scurries behind a counter.
Willie reaches the end of the counter.
A brief open space separates him from a stairwell; he dashes across as gunfire redoubles and plunges down the stairs.
Willie bursts out onto the loading dock still holding the elephant.
He dives into his Mercedes and peels out.
Rounding the corner of the loading dock, Willie comes upon a fleet of squad cars idling in the street.
Cops yell, draw their guns and fire as Willie clips a couple cars, skids and slues, and finally is clear of the pack.
He roars up the road as policemen leap for their vehicles, crank up their sirens and pursue.
Willie drives, his jaw set, a desperate man in a Santa suit.
He glances up at the rearview which shows many flashing light bars.
Willie's car corners onto Sage Terrace on two wheels, slams back down onto four, fishtails up to the kid's house and squeals braking into its driveway.
The police vehicles, in hot pursuit, squeal, skid, and slew around in a jumble at the foot of the lawn.
Cops leap out of their cars just as Willie jumps from his.
Willie is sprinting up the walk toward the front door.
He bounds up the stoop.
We are FADING IN on a shelf in the Kid's bedroom where the stuffed elephant sits, in a place of honor, its fur indeed stiff and stained with dried blood.
We PAN OFF of it to find this letter, crudely handwritten, tacked up on a little bulletin board.
Our CONTINUING PAN brings us to the open door of the bedroom and we hear the sound of the TV in the living room.
We TRACK toward it.
Grandma is in the living room watching TV.
We TRACK past her towards the Jacuzzi area.
Sue is in a towel, holding a highball as she climbs out of the Jacuzzi.
The Kid walks by her carrying a bucket.
Then we notice something moving in the reflection.
A dark shape, growing, coming down at us fast.
A DARK FIGURE in a tattered trench coat tumbles onto the pavement, hands out to slow the impact.
A beat then slowly he climbs to his feet, recovering from what seems to have been quite a fall.
He has chiseled features, shaved head, deep-set eyes.
He quickly checks out his surroundings, nothing but brick walls above him.
Then RAIN starts to hammer down.
Michael pulls his overcoat tight around his body and dashes toward the mouth of the alley.
He reaches the STREET just in time to see a FLEET OF POLICE CARS tearing around the corner, SIRENS WAILING, heading this way.
Runs his finger along its edge.
Michael begins to peel off his overcoat, revealing his bare chest underneath.and skin literally covered with DARK TATOOS.
As his coat falls to the ground, we DRIFT over to the BRICK WALL behind him where we see MICHAEL'S SHADOW crouch over, and then.
The RAIN POUNDS harder, as if punishment from the heavens.
The glint of the KNIFE coming down fast.
And then SILENCE.
Michael, face tight with pain, trench coat back on, steps out of the alley, stares with determination at a dark storefront across the street.
SMASH! Michael drops down through one of the skylights in a shower of glass.
Michael bursts in.
Tosses a first-aid kit into the sink.
His trench coat falls to the floor and here in the fluorescent light, we get a better look at him.
He turns his back to the mirror, revealing two HORRIFICALLY OPEN WOUNDS running down between both shoulder blades.
He threads a needle not with thread, but with FISHING WIRE, and begins to STITCH the wounds closed.
BLOOD POOLS on the cement floor around his feet.
Trench coat and a shirt back on, Michael races along the ENDLESS RACKS OF GUNS, searching for just the right weapons, his every movement precise, as if he's trained his whole life for this.
Weapon after ferocious weapon gets tossed into rifle bags.
Rifle bags filled, Michael heads for the exit.
The place is locked up tight.
Metal gate over the front doors, bars over the windows.
Two COPS, world weary, cruise through downtown.
Burton stares out at the city's rain soaked denizens with a deep hatred, the shadows looming in doorways, the streetwalkers.
He holds his finger up like a pistol.
Aims it at the people they pass, picking them off one by one.
In the distance, the POP-POP of GUNFIRE.
The POLICE RADIO CRACKLES with URGENT CHATTER.
MANY VOICES TALKING AT ONCE.
Michael lets the gun bags hit the ground.
Michael slowly places his palms on his skull.
Michael slowly turns around.
Estevez rushes in to restrain Michael, grabbing his wrist, FINGERS TIGHTENING.
And that's when he moves, a fucking blur! In an instant Michael's broken the cop's arm, spinning him helplessly around, turning him into a human shield.
Now it's Michael who's in charge, gun to Estevez's head, facing off with Burton.
THE STREET LAMPS BEGIN TO FLICKER AND STROBE, adding to the confusion.
Burton squeezes his eyes shut in pain, his WHOLE BODY QUAKING, heels CLICKING the pavement, as if some massive pressure were building inside him.
His eyes SNAP OPEN, focused, the force inside him now fully in control.
Estevez looks at his partner with confusion.
Michael, however, seems to know exactly who he's talking to.
BLAM! Burton shoots his partner in the head.
Estevez drops, leaving Michael without cover.
Burton re-aims, but Michael's faster, already FIRING back.
Bullets rip up the concrete.
SMASH! The squad car window SHATTERS, Burton's chest EXPLODING! And down he GOES, leaving Michael the only one left standing.
Smoke rising from his gun.
With soldier-like efficiency, Michael picks up the rifle bags and begins to load them into the trunk of the squad car.
He gets in the car and FLOORS IT, ROARING AWAY, as the FLICKERING STREET LAMPS FINALLY GO OUT IN RAPID SUCCESSION, a wave chasing him, PLUNGING THE ENTIRE CITY INTO DARKNESS.
Bolts awake.
Breathing hard.
Covered with sweat.
Jeep switches on a lamp, illuminating this incredibly cramped bedroom.
He's got shaggy hair, a sensitive face, clearly not big on sunlight.
A couple of ancient SILVERSTREAM TRAILERS are bathed in the eerie blue light of night's final moments.
It looks like the trailers haven't moved from this patch of barren ground in decades.
A single strand of colored Christmas lights dot the trailers roof lines, marking the season.
One of the trailer doors CREAKS open and Jeep steps wearily out into the cool western morning.
Jeep gazes up to the diner's slanted roof where a large sign glows like a beacon in the darkness.
A beat as Jeep contemplates the sign.
Jeep turns to see CHARLIE, a very pregnant girl of about twenty, standing in the trailer doorway, rubbing the sleep from her eyes.
She approaches Jeep.
Sees the strain in his eyes.
He struggles for a moment, nods.
A glimmer of a smile crosses Jeep's face.
Jeep turns away, dejected.
Charlie smiles sadly at him, touched by his sweetness, but this just isn't where she's at.
Jeep nods, tries to hide the fact that he's dying inside.
BOB HANSEN (late 40's), owner and proprietor of this fine roadside establishment, attempts to fix the old TV hanging in the corner above the counter by banging the shit out it.
Next to that, a faded diorama of the NATIVITY SCENE.
He deftly rolls an ENGRAVED SILVER ZIPPO back and forth over the nicotine stained fingers of his right hand.
Behind the counter, a black man named PERCY WALKER (60's) is cooking up a storm on the grill with spectacular one-handed dexterity.
A stunning looking sixteen-year-old GIRL with dyed-black hair and a piercing or three, is leaning seductively over the jukebox, swaying gently to the music.
The headband doubling as her mini-skirt reveals her knock-out figure in a way that really doesn't leave much up to the imagination.
Watching the scintillating action from a booth across the diner is a conservatively dressed SUBURBAN COUPLE.
SANDRA and HOWARD ANDERSON.
The girl who we now know as AUDREY ANDERSON turns to Howard with a caustic smile.
And with that she turns back to the jukebox.
Percy watches the exchange discreetly from behind the counter.
Howard turns back to his wife.
Rigid smile.
The noontime sun bakes the strip of highway slicing through this barren country.
A BLACK CADILLAC ESCALADE blazes a path.
HEAVY BEATS thunder from within.
KYLE WILLIAMS (late 20's) handsome as hell, thug style.
He passes a weathered road sign.
Kyle's expression says this is not good news.
He grabs his cell phone off the passenger seat.
He spots the truck stop diner just up the road ahead.
The Escalade pulls off the highway and rolls to a stop at the lonely row of old gas pumps.
Kyle gets out and surveys the scenery with dismay.
Grease stains and rusty car parts litter the ground.
Behind the place is the SILVERSTREAM TRAILER we saw Jeep step out of earlier.
Kyle grabs a crumpled hand drawn map from the front seat and flattens it out on the roof of the car.
She lets out a long slow exhale.
She considers him for a moment, then pulls out a cigarette.
Lights it off the end of hers then hands it to him.
Kyle takes a drag, pulls out his crumpled map.
Charlie quickly hides her cigarette behind her back.
Jeep nods, uncertain, eyes Kyle another moment, then he shuffles along out of sight.
Bob steps off the chair.
Bob turns to Kyle.
Bob is about to respond when.
Howard approaches, oblivious to the conversation he's interrupting.
Bob's expression darkens at this news.
Jeep walks out toward the gas pumps, but Bob's right alongside him, not giving up.
Jeep stiffens.
Turns to his father.
Bob gives Jeep a hard stare.
Jeep looks up at his father, his words hanging heavily.
Bob walks back into the diner.
Jeep is about to turn back to the garage when he notices something off in the distance.
Ominous DARK CLOUDS line the horizon to the south like a living wall.
He shifts his gaze up the highway to the north.
DARK CLOUDS are pushing their way over the distant mountains.
A storm is coming.
Bob reenters the diner to find Kyle sitting at the counter, digging into a plate of banana pancakes.
Kyle is about to address him again, when something else steals Bob's attention.
The image flickers but doesn't improve.
Bob gives the TV one final wallop -- WHACK! And the picture snaps into FOCUS.
The STARK GRAPHIC OF THE EMERGENCY BROADCASTING SYSTEM and its accompanying HOLLOW TONE fill the diner.
Everybody in the place stops and turns to the TV.
Bob switches the channels.
All the same.
Bob steps off the chair and backs slowly away from the TV as if a little distance will bring some clarity.
He bumps into Kyle.
Kyle hustles passed Percy.
Charlie is standing by the Anderson's table, clearing dishes.
Everybody's eyes are locked on the TV.
Kyle stews a beat, then picks up the phone to redial.
Everyone is looking at Howard.
Kyle has reappeared in the diner.
Jeep is buried under the Uhaul's hood, working at something with a socket wrench.
The old lady turns to the Andersons.
A FLY begins to buzz around Gladys's head.
Gladys smiles strangely.
Sandra nods at the old woman, unsure of what to make of that response.
It crawls across her cheek without her reacting in the least.
Howard and Sandra exchange looks.
The door JINGLES and Jeep walks in.
He heads straight for a quiet huddle with Bob.
All the while though, he keeps one eye fixed on the old lady sitting at the table near the Andersons.
Across the diner, Charlie places a bloody red steak in front of Gladys.
Charlie rests a hand on her belly.
A fly lands on Gladys's steak.
Charlie tries to wave it away.
But another one lands in its place.
Charlie freezes.
Kyle glances over from the counter.
Charlie shakes her head at the woman, not giving in.
She slaps the check down on the table and walks back toward the kitchen, passing Jeep and Bob.
Gladys begins to laugh innocently as she continues to devour her meat.
The flies are swarming now.
How did so many get in here? Sandra and Howard are mortified at this sudden turn of events.
Sandra covers her mouth in shock.
Everybody in the diner is now focused on the old lady.
Howard gets up from the booth.
EVERYBODY FREAKS as Howard crumbles to the floor.
Gladys rockets to her feet, knocking her table over.
Blood covers her face and chest.
Percy is the first to react.
From behind the counter, he whips a heavy metal frying pan at Gladys that knocks her head sideways.
Impossibly, Gladys is still standing.
She lets out an INHUMAN SCREAM and SCRAMBLES ACROSS THE DINER, knocking tables and chairs over in her wake.
Bob pulls a shotgun from behind the counter.
Gladys smiles sweetly before SLAPPING HIM CLEAR ACROSS THE .
The shotgun clatters to the floor at Jeep's feet.
Jeep snatches it up and aims it at Gladys who turns calmly to face him.
Jeep's about to fire, when the old lady's EYES GO ALL WHITE.
Jeep freezes, stunned by her words, overwhelming fear paralyzing him where he stands.
Gladys rockets straight at him! But Jeep's too afraid to move.
He clamps his eyes shut, bracing himself for the end.
A RAIN OF BULLETS RIP INTO GLADYS, taking her down like an animal.
Jeep slowly opens his eyes.
His gun's still cocked.
Gladys lies dead in a smoldering, bloody heap at his feet.
He turns to see Kyle with smoke rising from the barrel of his silver plated WESTERN ARMS Sandra is on the floor with her husband.
Blood pours freely from his neck.
Kyle stares at the dying man -- a moment of hesitation -- then he rushes to help.
Obeying, she cups her hands over the hole in his neck, desperately trying to stop the flow of blood leaking out between her fingers.
Percy scrambles over with a first-aid kit and together he and Kyle get to work on Howard's neck.
A few feet away, Charlie helps Bob, bruised and bleeding, to his feet.
Kyle shoots him a look.
Eighty miles?! Pedal to the floor time.
Audrey leans forward from the back seat.
Up ahead, the DARK CLOUDS Jeep saw earlier have finally closed in, descending onto the highway like a WALL.
They're black.
Undulating.
Suddenly HUNDREDS OF TINY BUGS begin to HIT the windshield .
And that's when they realize it hose aren't clouds.
The Escalade enters the SWARM.
The car is PUMMELED by insects, the windshield instantly covered in BLACK AND RED bug guts.
Bob is hunched over the steaming sink, pounding a can of light beer.
Jeep is leaning against the wall, looking like he's about to puke or faint.
Bob looks over at Jeep, sees him trembling.
He can't get the words out.
Bob rests a hand on his boy's shoulder.
Before Jeep can respond, they hear the sound of the front .
Bob and Jeep appear from the back, as Kyle, Percy, Audrey and Sandra carry Howard into the diner, all of them stumbling, gasping for air.
Charlie moves in to help.
Percy races for the back.
Bob, Kyle and Jeep quickly drag Gladys's body wrapped in the plastic table cloth a short ways from the diner.
They warily eye the curtain of FLIES no more than a hundred yards out.
They consider the police car a moment more.
Kyle hands the shotgun over to Bob.
Charlie's face lights up when she sees the police car.
The door of the POLICE CAR OPENS as Charlie races from the diner.
The three men see her moving toward the car.
Jeep's face goes slack.
The men begin to run toward her.
While out of the police car steps.
Charlie freezes a few feet from the car when she sees those piercing eyes already familiar to us.
Michael looks at her, as if she was exactly who he expected to see.
In moments Bob, Kyle and Jeep form a protective shield in front of Charlie.
Bob raises the shotgun.
A long beat as Michael considers Bob.
Michael stares at him blankly.
Michael offers up a dangerous smile, revealing a not so well kept but definitely normal set of teeth.
Bob and the others ease slightly.
Bob lowers the gun.
Michael remains silent.
Bob chuckles for a moment.
When Michael doesn't respond in kind, Bob falls silent.
He slowly raises the shotgun again.
Michael sizes up this raggedy group.
His gaze drifts over to the loosely wrapped body in front of the diner.
The plastic table cloth flaps wildly in the wind.
Turning back to Bob.
Michael just shakes his head.
Michael steps toward Charlie with a sense of purpose, but Bob blocks his path, brandishing the shotgun.
That's when Kyle Michael something out in the direction of the road.
Michael whips the gun away from Bob's head and thrusts it back into his hands.
Bob's looks down at the gun, speechless.
Michael walks swiftly around to the trunk of the cruiser.
Pops it, revealing a staggering ARSENAL OF WEAPONRY.
Michael's eyes narrow, studying Jeep.
Michael pulls out twin MPfor himself.
Boxes of shotgun shells.
A flicker of LIGHT.
And then FLASHLIGHT BEAMS CUT THROUGH THE DARKNESS.coming to rest on Michael's pale face.
Michael looks up at the ceiling.
A hatch opens and out comes Michael followed by Bob, Percy and Kyle.
Michael is about to answer, when.
TWO HEADLIGHTS appear in the darkness.
And sure enough, an ICE CREAM TRUCK rolls slowly toward the diner.
It's too dark to see who's behind the wheel.
The men quickly do as they're told.
Kyle, Bob shoot quick anxious looks at Percy.
Charlie and Audrey peer between the slats covering the windows.
The ICE CREAM TRUCK'S HEADLIGHTS fan across the diner.
Audrey and Charlie back away from the windows.
Charlie stops next to Jeep.
Rests a hand on his arm.
Howard smiles weakly at the familiar sound of the CALLIOPE.
The Ice Cream Truck pulls to a stop with its headlights facing the diner.
Everyone aims their guns at the truck.
From the Ice Cream Truck.a DARK BLOODY SHOE STEPS to the ground.
MOVING up the long grey pant leg spotted with blood stains to reveal a skeletally thin man in tattered coveralls.
As he steps into the beams of the headlights we can see him even more clearly.
He's tall.
He surveys the diner, the garage, the roof -- assessing the situation.
On the roof, the men wait for something to happen.
That's when the Ice Cream Man's JAW UNHINGES, STRETCHING .
Everyone except Michael is practically hyperventilating with fear.
And the ICE CREAM MAN BOLTS for the diner with STARTLING SPEED! His movements aren't at all like those of a normal man, but rather like some kind of HUMAN INSECT.
Michael aims.
Bullets rip into the creature's body, knocking him flat on his back.
Arms and legs in a twisted, twitching mess.
Michael keeps his aim.
A RUMBLING OF ENGINES.
HEADLIGHTS.
A freeway full of VEHICLES of every variety punch through the wall of dust, racing toward the diner.
Vehicles swerve and COLLIDE! DARK SHAPES bolt from the burning vehicles, scattering.
Suddenly Howard's body is TORN AWAY from Sandra.
Something's got hold of his legs! That gets Sandra's eyes open.
Sandra screams, holds on.
Charlie and Audrey rush to Sandra's side, grabbing Howard's arms.
Jeep is right behind them ready to fire at the creature, but with the women in the way, he can't get a clear shot.
So he discards the gun and grabs Howard's arms.
Howard screams as his body is torturously stretched.
A human tug-of-war.
Howard's body lurches further out the window.
Kyle looks around the roof with alarm.
Only a few more inches separate Charlie and certain death through the window.
Jeep's losing her.
Charlie and Jeep fall back into the diner, the claw like hands still grasping Charlie's arm no longer attached to their owners.
Michael leaps over her, a butcher's knife in one hand, a machine gun in the other.
The window blinds become a WALL OF FIRE.
Charlie flings the severed appendages off her and she and Jeep scoot away from the window.
Hysterical, Sandra tries to push past Michael.
She's going after Howard.
He intercepts her before she can make it out.
Sandra slaps at him frantically as he carries her away from the window and thrusts her down into a back booth.
She's about to say something when -- Kyle rushes into the room.
A smile on his face.
Then Kyle notices the broken window, takes in the room, his excitement falling.
Bob grabs Kyle's arm.
All eyes on Michael.
Michael looks squarely at Percy.
Bob stares at Michael, uncertain how to respond to that.
Charlie reacts in shock, as all eyes are suddenly on her.
In response to that, Charlie does the only thing someone can do when told such a thing.
She LAUGHS.
At this Charlie goes white, the realization hitting her.
Michael nods.
Charlie sways on her feet.
Jeep rests a hand on her shoulder, steadying her.
With a CLANK Michael re-arms his weapon, turns to the group with finality.
Percy looks at him skeptically.
Kyle looks at Percy, fear in his eyes, then he turns back to the darkness.and the evil that surrounds them.
Bob plays with his trusty zippo with one hand and grills up some steaks with the other.
He pauses to take a slug from a can of beer.
Sandra sits at the counter across from him, staring at a prescription bottle tipped in front of her, pills spread around.
Bob glances over, sees the devastation in her eyes.
He pulls another can of beer from underneath the counter, pops it and places it in front of her.
She looks up at him.
Smiles weakly.
Takes a sip.
The moment the words leave her mouth, the grief hits her again.
Meanwhile in a booth across the diner, Audrey is fiddling with Percy's old radio.
Up at the front of the diner, Jeep silently helps Michael nail broken table planks across the shattered window.
He eyes the strange tatoos running down Michael's arms, the two jagged wounds visible above his shirt line.
Michael considers the question a beat, then.
Michael drives the last nail into place, securing the window.
Michael pauses a beat, as if unsure how much to say
Michael heads for the roof, leaving Jeep to stare after him, deep in thought.
The faintest glint of sunlight through the dark red dusty haze.
Michael is searching the horizon in front of the diner for movement.
On the other side of the roof, Bob keeps watch, struggling to stay awake.
His eyes droop closed.
Sandra awakens with a start.
Sandra spins around.
She is searching who is calling her name
Sandra turns to face the BACK DOOR.
A desk blocks it.
Sandra ever so slowly approaches the door.
Sandra is stricken.
Sandra notices the TRANSOM WINDOW above the door.
She climbs onto the desk and stretches up until she can see out.
Howard Her husband was there
His skin is covered with horrible black boils.
Howard's boils are breathing.
Sandra goes slack with horror.
She struggles against him, throwing a wild elbow that tags Kyle in the face.
Kyle goes down
Sandra is about to open the door when Audrey pounces on her.
Percy springs up.
Howard nailed to the upside-down cross below.
Audrey rushed into the room to stop her mother Sandra
Sandra slaps Audrey hard.
Audrey stumbles over Kyle and hits the floor.
Percy appears in the doorway.
Sandra whips open the back door and that's when the world hits SLOW MOTION.
Howard is there a few feet away.
Howard is alive
Sandra races toward him.
Just behind her comes Percy.
And that's when the speed ACCELERATES TO NORMAL his Howard's body explodes and spraying streams of dark fluid toward Sandra.
Just at the moment Percy spins around her, shielding her from the spray, which hits him in the back.
Percy pushes Sandra back into the diner, the door SLAMMING closed behind them.
Percy releases Sandra, letting her stumble hysterically into the room.
Kyle and Jeep grab her, forcing her to the ground.
Charlie turns to look at Percy who is still standing with his back to the door, breathing heavily.
He takes a step forward, then falls to ground.
The entire back side of Percy's body Burned away.
Percy's body lies covered on the table.
Bob stares ruefully at his dead friend.
Tears stream down his face.
Jeep watches his father from the doorway.
Keyl looks over at Charlie, defeated.
She shakes her head, anger building.
Charlie stands at the sink, cigarette to her lips, water running, stealing a private moment.
She takes a deep drag, feels the smoke filling her lungs, defiant.
Then she catches a look at herself in the mirror, runs her hand along the curvature of her belly.
Tears well up in her eyes, fear and anger overtaking her.
She stamps out the cigarette in a fit of frustration.
Jeep sees the strain on her face.
A long beat, as Jeep considers her, then.
She turns to him, the bitterness overtaking her.
Jeep's face hardens.
He gets up and looks get hurt and frustrated from Charlie
And with that, Jeep walks away, leaving Charlie to stare after him, disturbed and surprised by his response.
The INVISIBLE SUN is sinking.
Kyle and Audrey are bundled together on the roof, keeping watch.
Kyle is showing her how to hold the MPShe points the gun out into the haze like she's been holding one all her life.
Off Kyle's surprised look.
After a moment, Audrey switches the safety back on.
Hands the gun over to Kyle.
Audrey stares into the red nothingness surrounding them.
Her expression growing distant.
She seems to have aged years overnight.
She smiles at this confession.
Audrey leans in.
It's like something else beyond sensual need has taken over.
Just then the SPOT LIGHTS that illuminate the roof sign come to life.
Down below, the gas pumps LIGHT UP.
The station's FLUORESCENTS flicker on.
Bob's TV glows with bright rolling STATIC.
Jeep and Michael move to look through the slats at the window.
Charlie is giving Sandra some water through a straw.
Bob wanders in, squinting at the sudden presence of light.
HEADLIGHTS appear on the highway.
Kyle stares at Audrey's beautiful, determined face.
Then he pulls out his silver The headlights become a FAMILY MINIVAN careening wildly off the highway to stop at the pumps.
They aim their weapons at the vehicle.
A well dressed MAN in his mid-thirties jumps out of the car.
He looks around nervously, scared.
Then, seeing that the coast is clear, he offers a calming wave to his WIFE and YOUNG BOY who wait anxiously for him inside the car.
He races around to the gas pump.
Kyle and Audrey spin to look out over the back side of the diner.
AN ARMY OF DARK SHAPES are swarming in fast.
Kyle looks urgently back at the family.
The father lifts the pump.
Kyle and Audrey wave their arms frantically at the family.
Kyle fires his gun in the air.
BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! At the sound of gunfire, the man looks quickly up to the roof.
His family heard it too and they start to SCREAM TO HIM.
The man can only see silhouettes in this light, but he's not waiting around to see if it's friend or foe.
Audrey watches in horror as the dark shapes reach the diner.
The father dashes to the driver's side.
He looks over his shoulder just in time to see a BLUR OF MOVEMENT RUSHING AT HIM.
His BLOOD PAINTS the car windows.
Kyle raises his MP5 to fire upon the dark shapes that surround the vehicle like swarming insects.
The Possessed move in from all sides, but Kyle is remarkably agile, dropping one after another in a stunning display.
He closes in on the family, blasting back the creatures huddled around them.
He finds the YOUNG BOY curled up with his hands protectively covering his face.
Kyle swoops down and gathers the boy into his arms.
Kyle moves on to the mother.
The creatures have stopped coming at him.
In fact, they're just standing there watching him.
Kyle freezes.
CLOSE ON HIM as he senses something terribly wrong.
Audrey raises the and CLICK.
She keeps pulling the trigger.
The boy's tears stop instantly.
Audrey backs away.
She looks toward the entrance to the diner.
Blocked by advancing creatures.
They're everywhere.
She's trapped.
She notices the open door to the MINIVAN.
Audrey dives into the car as the throng of creatures rapidly closes in.
She hammers the auto door lock.
CLUNK! She moves to the center of the car as gruesome faces press against the windows.
A nightmare come to life.
Charlie rushes to Michael's side.
But he's immovable.
Charlie COCKS the gun, moves toward the door.
Charlie looks back at him, defiant.
Bob springs into action, clearing the door and flipping the dead bolt.
The door is opened and Michael charges passed Charlie and out into hell.
With stunning calm, Michael marches straight for the pumps.
IN THE MINIVAN, Audrey screams as the windows begin to CRACK.
Michael grabs a gas pump, flips the lever and points it at the minivan.
What's he up to? The creatures covering the car turn to look at Michael as if they've just now noticed him.
And that's when he starts spraying gas at them.
Up comes Michael's Glock in his other hand and BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! The spray of gas EXPLODES into a SPRAY OF FIRE! The MINIVAN is engulfed in flames.
Creatures tear away from the car like fiery comets through the night.
The windows EXPLODE, showering Audrey with tiny shards of glass.
Michael drops the gas pump.
He reaches through a fire rimmed broken car window and unlocks the door.
Audrey looks up to see Michael's expressionless face CIRCLED .
Charlie dashes behind the counter to the sink.
She fills up a pitcher of water.
She turns away from the sink with the filled pitcher.
The boy swings the knife at her, slicing open the waitress outfit covering her pregnant belly.
Charlie tumbles back to the ground behind the counter.
She frantically pushes herself away from the approaching boy.
She's backed against the end of the counter! The boy raises the knife to strike.
Charlie grabs a baking pan off a shelf.
Swings it out in front of her body like a shield, as the KNIFE IS DRIVEN DOWN.
CLANG! The knife hits the pan hard and stops.
But the boy's hands don't.
They slip off the handle and run right down the blade.
The knife CLATTERS to the ground.
The boy instinctively raises his hands to strike again, but there's no knife.
Charlie watches in horror as the boy calmly realizes that his THUMBS ARE MISSING.
Blood sprays from the stumps.
Charlie pulls her legs in close then rockets them out at the boy's chest.
He's catapulted away from her.
Michael leaps over the counter, landing in front of Charlie, guns ready for action.
Charlie shakes her head no.
Jeep's LIGHT CATCHES SOMETHING ON THE GROUND.
Bob flails around trying to pull the boy's small, but deadly strong arms away from his neck.
Michael lowers his flashlight.
A flickering light emanates from within the diner.
Charlie, drenched in sweat is writhing on the ground with Michael holding down her arms and Audrey kneeling between her legs.
Bob and Jeep keep watch.
The SPECTRAL LIGHTS in the distance seem to be growing larger -- closer.
Jeep rests a comforting hand on his father's shoulder.
Bob pulls his son close and hugs him with all his might, tears filling his eyes.
Charlie tried hard to push and there it is a BABY'S CRIES.
Audrey stood stunned ,standing wide eyes opned and, holding up the CHILD.
Audrey reacts, crosses to the counter, turns on the radio, trying to drown out the sound of the approaching menace.
Out of the STATIC, the haunting sounds of BING CROSBY singing SILENT NIGHT fills the room.
The quiet before the storm.
Michael helps Charlie quickly clean herself up.
She stares at him, a burning spite in her eyes.
Those words provide her little comfort.
Charlie shakes her head, this is all too much.
Michael nods grimly.
Charlie looks urgently at Michael.
The baby CRIES LOUDER.
Charlie, shaken by this revelation, reaches out to Audrey.
Audrey moves to hand over the baby to Charlie.
Sandra backs away from them, moving toward the front door.
Michael cocks his gun.
Points it at Sandra.
Charlie squares off with Sandra, panic in her eyes.
Charlie stares at her in horror, the truth of those words rattling her to the very core.
A brilliant SPECTRAL LIGHT pours into the diner.
She raises a hand to block the light.
And that's when Michael fires.
BLAM! Sandra staggers back, blood dripping from the hole in her forehead, and.
Michael fires again.
Blowing Sandra's body back through the doorway.
Jeep watches the baby sail SLOWLY through the air.
Jeep DIVES for the baby.catching the bundle of rags mere inches from the ground! And then he looks up to see.
The dark SILHOUETTE OF A MAN approaching from out of the spectral light.
A MAN WITH WINGS.
Jeep's eyes grow wide as the FIERCE ANGEL steps into the diner.
The angel's wings retract with clockwork-like precision.
And now that we see the his face clearly, we notice his striking resemblance to Michael.
Gabriel raises a massive, ferocious, strangely mechanical looking MACE in his powerful hands.
And the world returns to NORMAL SPEED as Gabriel brings the mace arcing down at Jeep.
Jeep rolls! CLANG! The weapon just misses him, hitting the floor in a spray of sparks, literally CRACKING THE GROUND.
Gabriel brings the mace up again.
With a sweep of his hand, Gabriel sends Bob flying across the diner where he crashes down behind the counter near the stove.
Michael GRABS JEEP'S HAND before the boy can rush back into the fray.
Michael lets go of Jeep's hand and turns away to face Gabriel, leaving Jeep to contemplate those final words.
And that's when Jeep opens his hand to find the KEYS to Michael's Police Cruiser.
Jeep looks up from the keys to see Charlie, Audrey and the baby.
Michael slowly approaches Gabriel.
Jeep gives it some gas, but the ENGINE'S NOT CATCHING.
A DARK SHAPE POUNCES ONTO THE HOOD OF THE CAR.
The light catches it, revealing the disfigured face and beard of a SHOPPING MALL SANTA CLAUS, his oversized belly gruesomely distended.
Gabriel raises the mighty mace above his head.
Michael closes his eyes.
BUZZING surrounds them.
Gabriel moves gracefully through the destroyed diner, toward the source of the CLICKING.
He steps behind the counter and finds Bob lying in a massive pool of blood.
It takes the creature a moment to realize that the CLICKING sound is coming from Bob's SILVER ZIPPO.
Bob is focusing every last ounce of life in his body to lighting that lighter.
Bob looks at Gabriel.
And with one last brush of his thumb, Bob's trusty ZIPPO .
Gabriel's eyes go wide as the TINY FLAME DANCES in front of the stove's broken gas line.
Gabriel spins and runs like hell as the gas explodes.
The MASSIVE EXPLOSION rocks the slow moving vehicle.
Jeep swings the gun around.
BLAM! Gabriel takes one in the shoulder, but it doesn't slow him down.
Audrey desperately tries to load a flare while avoiding Gabriel's grasp.
Jeep can't get off another shot without the risk of hitting Audrey.
Gabriel is almost entirely in the car now.
Audrey swings the flare gun toward Gabriel, but he knocks her hand aside just as she pulls the trigger and the flare goes off INSIDE THE CAR! Jeep ducks.
The CAR SWERVES MADLY.
The flare RICOCHETS through the cabin, lighting it up like the Fourth of July! Gabriel lunges for Charlie just as the flare bounces off the windshield - PING! - and nails him right in the face, SETTING .
And that gives Jeep the chance to swing around and FIRE.
He holds onto the car with an iron grip.
Starts to pull himself back in.
Jeep pulls the trigger again and.CLICK.
Brings it up to fire, but he's too fast! WHACK! Gabriel knocks her into the side of the car with a sweep of his hand.
Now he's clawing his way unobstructed toward Charlie again.
Charlie pushes herself and the baby down on the floor in front of the passenger seat.
Jeep PUNCHES IT.
The speedometer leaps ahead.
Gabriel lunges over the passenger seat, grasping for Charlie, his ferocious hand only inches from her and the baby, when.
Audrey leaps onto Gabriel, pulling him away from Charlie just in time.
The intertwined bodies of Gabriel and Audrey hit the road with a sickening crunch and ROLL INTO A BALL OF FIRE.
The Cruiser spins out of control, swerving off the road and careening into a large rock formation.
Jeep's side of the car is crushed.
Charlie crawls up from the floor.
She kicks open her door and begins pulling him out.
The storm is passing now, blown by the driving wind.
The camera RISES UP to find JAVERT, the officer in charge of the convict workforce, looking on, his face rain-lashed and expressionless.
Behind Javert, through the storm rain we glimpse a forest of half-built ships, their ribbed frames like great skeletons in the mist.
FOREGROUND convicts are at work on another ship that is almost completed, labouring in the crashing spray.
With a last great heave the lines of convicts haul the damaged ship onto the slipway.
He stands above the men on the top of the dock, as lines of convicts labour beneath him on the steep steps of the dock wall.
Javert nods to the guards, and they begin to form the chained men into lines to return to their prison.
Javert approaches Jean Valjean.
Javert sees and points his stick at Valjean in silent command.
Valjean stares back for a beat, defying him.
Then he drops down into the seething water and re-emerges with the great mast in his hands, held over his head.
His head breaks water with his bitter gaze still on Javert, as he throws the mast ashore in a deliberate display of strength.
Valjean walks away, hardly able to take in that he is free at last.
Valjean makes his way up a rising track, a worn knapsack on his back.
Valjean strides down the long rising road, pulling his thin coat close round him against the cold winter wind.
He comes to a stop at the top of the hill, and there before him, lit by the rising sun, spreads a wide vista of fields and towns and villages, stretching into the distance, with the snow capped Alps beyond.
He passes a long line of labourers working.
He approaches the OVERSEER.
Behind and below him lies Toulon at the sea's edge.
The overseer notices shaved hair showing under his cap.
Bewildered, fearful, suspicious, Valjean gets up and goes with the Bishop into the house by the church.
A simple table on which is laid out bread and wine, with silver cutlery.
The bishop's sister Madame Baptistine stands.
Two silver candlesticks light the room, illuminating walls painted with religious scenes.
Valjean hesitates.
The Bishop looks from the silver to Valjean.
The old Bishop is holding out the two silver candlesticks.
Valjean, utterly bewildered, takes the silver candlesticks.
Amazed, Valjean looks up.
Silenced by the Bishop's gentle tones, the policemen turn and leave.
He takes out his yellow passport and stares at it.
Valjean kneels in the church.
Slowly, he examines the yellow passport and raises it high, as if to the altar.
Valjean stands and turns, walking fast to the door of the church.
Valjean comes out of the church into the graveyard and reaches a bell set on the edge of a promontory.
He rips the yellow paper into pieces and throws the pieces out over the valley.
FOLLOW the scraps of yellow paper as they dance in the wind then fall away into the void below.
The scraps flutter in the wind.
Below lies the steep drop down the mountainside to the dark valley below.
We follow this and accelerate upwards leaving Valjean and the town of Digne far below, towards the sun gloriously breaking through the heavens with the alps beyond.
One scrap of paper dances upwards in the sunlight.
The camera then starts to tumble back down through mist and cloud below - through time and space - down to discover - .
We see ships sitting in low tide on the mud of the estuary along the dockside of the town, and red brick factory buildings.
The camera hurtling towards three horses riding down a long muddy road on a flat plain towards the walled town of Montreuil-sur-Mer.
Montreuil sits on an estuary leading out to the sea.
As the riders enter the walled town we see the poor clustered around the gates - destitute and sick people clammering to get in.
Javert sees the destitution of the people.
Expressionless as ever.
The police enter the harbour.
The beggars are pushed back as the gates open and close for the police.
The long work space is full of tables at which conservatively dressed women are working, making jewelry out of shellac, a black resin which looks like jet.
The Foreman has stopped beside FANTINE, a pretty young woman.
As he leans over to whisper in her ear Fantine, surprised, pricks her finger with her needle.
The women start to take off their overalls and pack up their tools for the day.
Fantine has taken out a letter.
The main factory woman snatches the letter away from Fantine.
Fantine tries to get the letter back.
The letter is passed surreptitiously down the line of women workers.
The main factory woman starts to take Fantine's letter over to the Foreman.
The women scuffle.
The owner enters the factory floor.
Clean- shaven, well-fed, transformed: it's Valjean.
Suddenly Valjean sees Javert appear on the first floor balcony of his office.
His world drops away.
On the factory floor - .
Fantine continues to defend herself to the Foreman, as the women sing - .
The Foreman pulls Fantine away.
Below, Fantine turns and calls to Valjean in his office above with a pitiful cry.
He walks back to the stairs up to his office.
Valjean shows some demonstration samples of their work.
Valjean throws him a sharp glance.
Javert is puzzled.
Valjean and Javert hurry out across the factory yard and down the muddy track beyond to discover - A heavily laden cart has toppled onto the cart driver - Fauchelevent, the worker seen before taking a rest on a crate.
The cart driver and the Foreman are trying to lift the cart off the crushed man, but it's too heavy, and the ground is too soft.
Valjean, Javert and Javert's assistant all hurry to help, but they can't get a proper purchase in the spongy ground.
Fauchelevent screams as the cart slowly sinks in the mud.
He throws himself under the cart at this higher end, and braces himself to lift it from beneath.
At one end the wheels of the cart have stopped sinking - the ground is harder here.
Valjean goes to help Fauchelevent.
Valjean holds Javert's gaze, challenging him to say more.
Javert is not yet confident enough to continue.
Fantine presses on down the steps, trying to ignore the sailors.
They spot Fantine, mistaking her for a whore.
The sailors then see whores start to appear from the shadows of warehouse doorways.
The few men in the street choose their whores and disappear by the end of the chorus.
A man selling dentures stands by his cart and we hear fragments of his sales pitch.
Fantine walks down the steps with short hair, mocked by the voices of the whores on either side.
Fantine heads to the tooth man.
A PIMP and the HEAD WHORE watch her progress as the organ- grinder grinds out the music.
Fantine looks towards the tooth man and the head whore.
The pimp pushes her down.
She grabs Fantine's cheeks and forces open her mouth to inspect her teeth.
She opens her mouth, and the pincers go in, as everyone gathers round to watch.
Fantine screams as the first tooth is removed.
The pimp is passing among the whores, checking that they're all fit for business.
He moves in on Fantine.
Fantine looks up, a trickle of blood in one corner of her mouth.
The whores cluster round her, hands reaching out to draw her in to their world.
On the rotting warship, more whores appear out of the gaps of the hull to sing the chorus.
Whore 3 bites her fingertip and applies her blood to rouge Fantine's cheeks.
The whores perform for the benefit of Fantine on the orders of the head whore, as the head whore leads her towards the hulk.
Whores sing from the warehouse doorways, from on top of the spars of the ships, writhing around figureheads and from the rotting ship.
The pimp leads the captain down the middle of the whores to Fantine who wears a filthy white dress.
The pimp joins the captain and Fantine's hands as the head whore officiates - like a twisted wedding ceremony.
Fantine puts on a show of courage as she leads the captain into the ship's hulk, which is a brothel.
Fantine, pale and frail, her bodice loosened, leads the captain down to the damp dregs of the ship.
We see the rotting straw mattress within as they enter, then Fantine lays down.
CLOSE ON a man's hand leaving money.
MOVE TO FIND Fantine lying alone on the mattress.
She pulls herself into a sitting position against the head of the mattress.
She has seen and recognised Valjean, some way off.
He's out in the harbour district.
He is talking to a beggar.
Before he moves on, he hands over some money.
She moves past the anchored ships, beneath the bowsprits, trying pathetically to attract custom.
Fantine is out on the snow and ice-covered quayside, shivering, waiting for trade.
She looks pale and sickly, but still attempts an alluring smile.
As Fantine watches Valjean on his mission of mercy, a well- dressed young man, BAMATABOIS, comes up to her.
He arrives with two friends and a valet.
Javert is quietly coldly furious.
He shows the blood.
Fantine is almost fainting with fear, still racked with occasional spasms of coughing.
Valjean steps out of the shadows.
Javert turns to Fantine.
Javert's assistants pick Fantine up.
Javert indicates to the two policemen to drag Fantine away.
To Fantine, it's as if he's come to her in a dream - .
Javert looks on, containing his anger, as Valjean reaches out a hand to Fantine.
He holds Fantine's hands, looking into her face.
Valjean picks Fantine up in his arms.
As Valjean and Fantine move away, Javert stares after them, then turns and quietly instructs his assistant to follow after them.
As Javert walks up the steps to his police station his assistant stops him with an urgent letter.
Javert seizes it, opens it, and reads.
As he reads, his expression changes.
Appalled, he realizes he's made a terrible mistake.
Valjean is at his desk in his office, going through his papers once everyone else has gone, when Javert enters and stands before him.
Valjean conceals his shock.
He looks up.
Valjean is sitting staring at the Bishop's candlesticks.
Valjean is furiously packing stuff up.
The driver is Valjean, hesitating.
Close on two horses panting.
Valjean pushes through the crowds at the back of the courtroom.
Before the judge has a chance to speak, the doors open and Valjean bursts in.
The man accused of being Jean Valjean, a wretched down-and- out, stands before the JUDGE.
He looks uncannily like the real Valjean.
Sensation in the court.
The judge is too stunned to respond.
The judge goes over to Valjean and gently leads him out.
She sees something over Valjean's shoulder.
Fantine starts to spasm.
Her eyes go glassy as she passes away.
Valjean then hears the unforgettable voice of Javert behind him.
Valjean stands to face Javert.
Javert draws his sword and aims it at Valjean.
Valjean breaks a section of timber beam from the roof.
They sing at the same time, duelling in song.
The men start to circle each other.
Cosette goes to put the broom away.
Madame Thenardier imitates Cosette as she sings.
We see Cosette's frightened eyes peering out from a tiny gap in this wall.
Eponine comes in from outside.
Madame Thenardier sees that Cosette far from going is hiding behind the far wall.
Madame Thenardier goes outside to open up the rather pathetic frost fair stall on the porch of the inn.
The innkeeper's gang posing as customers who have been loitering outside come in, explaining to a fifth man who is a newer recruit a story from Monsieur Thenardier's past.
Madame Thenardier ushers him inside.
Madame Thenardier pretends to accidentally drop a comb from her hair and the customer helpfully picks it up, allowing Madame Thenardier to pick his wallet from a back pocket as he stands up.
Thenardier has thieved the pocket watch using his handshake as a distraction.
Thenardier fusses over them.
Thenardier is pissing into the very wine bottle he's using to serve the customer.
Thenardier is going through the groom's trousers.
She goes slowly, because the buckets are heavy.
Cosette has filled her buckets at the well in the wood, and is now heading back.
After a few steps she pauses to rest the weight of the buckets.
She looks up, amazed.
There's Valjean.
Thenardier turns to his wife.
He gives Thenardier money.
Valjean gives more money.
He leads Cosette to the door.
Valjean lifts Cosette into the waiting cab.
Madame Thenardier takes the bunch of notes from her husband's hand and inspects them.
Through the open door Thenardier sees a man on horseback rattling up to the inn.
Javert strides into the inn.
Valjean's cab, moving fast, passes down the road into the city.
IN CAB - Valjean has one arm round Cosette to protect her from the jolting of the cab.
He gazes at her as she slips into a fitful sleep.
Valjean and Cosette turn down a narrow street, no longer hurrying.
Valjean and Cosette make their way down a darkened street.
Now Valjean and Cosette are running - down narrow alleys, into small dark courtyards, not knowing which way to turn.
Valjean finds a section of tumble down wall and climbs over.
Valjean and Cosette turn into a street that is walled in by high windowless houses.
Then he sees a nearby lamp bracket.
The narrow street turns, and opens out onto the river.
They follow it round a corner to find - a dead end.
Valjean stops.
A high wall before them.
They're trapped.
Valjean looks round.
Once on the top, he hauls Cosette up by the rope.
A cloister.
As he sings he walks out onto the roof and stands by the symbol of the HQ, a monumental stone eagle.
He looks down at the lights reflected in the river below.
Then up at the great city.
The fine ladies and grand gentlemen in the carriages avert their eyes, or raise the blinds of their carriage windows to shut out the sight of the losers of their world.
Gavroche, bounding over their heads, evading the swipes of liveried footmen, lands on the running board of one particularly grand carriage and begs/taunts the RICH .
STILL RUNNING WITH Gavroche as he hops onto the back of another very grand carriage, the traffic now moving at last, hitching a ride on the back - one or two of his gang hop on back of carriage with him, the others run panting after to hear his political lecture.
The carriage has reached an arch into a courtyard where a crowd of a couple of hundred is gathered outside a house of sickness.
The carriage stops as its occupant wants to watch what is going on.
Gavroche jumps off as the carriage stops and joins the crowd.
The crowd is made up of citizens of Paris, student revolutionaries, the poor and beggars.
The students hand out printed leaflets and try to excite the crowd.
A student, ENJOLRAS, stands on a raised step, making an impassioned speech with fellow student MARIUS.
A priest is seen hurrying into the house, accompanied by two altar boys.
In the crowd a young street girl, EPONINE, has her eyes fixed longingly on the handsome Marius.
The occupant of the stopped carriage is MONSIEUR GILLENORMAND, Marius' Grandfather.
He is clearly deeply unhappy to see his grandson engaged in such an activity.
Mounted Police ride in to break up the crowd.
Marius turns to see his Grandfather staring him down, furious.
Gillenormand turns to get back in his carriage.
Through a crack in a door, we see Marius sitting on a tatty mattress in a tiny hovel of a room.
He is taking out a hunting rifle from under the mattress, wrapped in a rag.
His eye is caught by the ring on his finger.
CLOSE ON a signet ring, a family crest.
Marius stares at the ring then takes it off his finger.
We reveal EPONINE staring at him through the door.
Eponine comes to a stop, looking wistfully after Marius.
Marius is stopped as he exits the front door of the Gorbeau Tenement by a passing carriage.
Once it passes Marius sees two people in the street outside.
One is an old gentleman, Valjean.
The other is a beautiful young girl, Cosette.
The two are giving alms to beggars as they walk back from evening church service.
Marius can't take his eyes off Cosette.
As if drawn by Marius's gaze, Cosette looks up and meets his eyes.
She too is amazed: he's looking at her as if he already knows her.
A second carriage breaks their held gaze.
Marius continues on down the street and when he looks back, at that precise moment Cosette looks at him again.
Valjean instinctively puts his arm round her, guarding her jealously from this distant boy's gaze.
We cut further down the street to an alleyway where the Thenardiers, heavily disguised, are waiting for Valjean's approach with their gang of crooks, Babet, Brujon, Clacquesous, Montparnasse.
Thenardier approaches Valjean and lures him into the mouth of the alleyway where Madame Thenardier is sat on the ground holding the crying infant.
Cosette is a few steps behind, still entranced by the sight of Marius.
As Valjean bends down to look at Madame Thenardier she recognizes him.
Thenardier pulls off his disguise.
Valjean recognises him.
He signals to his gang.
The gang move in on Valjean menacingly.
A door opens in the alleyway revealing the huge Brujon.
Marius watches, as does Gavroche, drawn by the rumpus.
The gang spill out into the street to find themselves confronted by Javert now with his men.
He sees man with his arm protectively round a girl but does not recognize Valjean as Valjean has averted his face.
He turns back on the Thenardier gang in the passage.
He turns back to find Valjean and Cosette gone.
He is furious.
Thenardier, listening, hears this all with great interest.
She turns back to find Marius gazing down the street.
Joly turns goes over to Marius at the back, a faraway look on his face.
They sit.
They burst into laughter.
But Enjolras isn't smiling.
Enjolras turns to his companions.
As the students sing, Eponine enters wanting to talk to Marius.
Marius sees her.
It's a pretty room, the best room in this small summer house.
Cosette is pacing in her bedroom.
Her shutters are open, giving a view of a wild unkempt garden.
Valjean knocks and opens her door.
He closes her shutters.
Valjean leaves and goes into his own bedroom.
Cosette follows.
Valjean sits on his bed, his back to Cosette.
A simple wooden shack at the back of the summerhouse, Valjean himself lives with spartan simplicity - he has given the best room to Cosette.
Marius rushes down the street, Eponine following.
At the far end is the walled garden behind which lies Valjean's house.
Cosette sees Marius.
She comes up the garden path towards him.
Cosette holds the wrought-ironwork of the gate with both hands, eyes on Marius.
Marius wraps his hands round Cosette's.
Eponine looks on and suffers.
Valjean comes to the door.
He goes to the gate and opens it.
Eponine screams.
Valjean, now in his own bedroom, hears the scream and turns to the window.
Thenardier and his gang shrink into the shadows, as Eponine's scream ends at last.
He comes back to Cosette.
Valjean comes running into Cosette's room.
Valjean takes her in his arms.
Valjean leaves to start packing.
Feverishly, Cosette scribbles a letter.
Cosette hurries down the garden to the gate, and goes to put the folded letter in the grill where her and Marius' hands entwined.
Eponine steps forward.
She opens the letter, reads it, then hides it in her pocket.
Eponine stands outside Marius' door.
Marius looks up.
Marius by the empty house.
INTERCUT between Eponine at the gate, Cosette and Valjean in the carriage, and Marius in the dark garden.
Grantaire is downstairs flirting with a BARMAID.
MADAME HUCHELOUP the proprietress of the Cafe Musain is sewing a red revolutionary flag to help the students.
Javert is briefing a hundred uniformed police about the coming day in a grand ornate old room at Police Headquarters.
Monsieur and Madame Thenardier are in the ground-floor bar, slyly watching a student smuggling some rifles up the stairs disguised in a piece of cloth.
Grantaire rather reluctantly goes upstairs.
Enjolras and the students have a production line under way for making bullets.
Marius enters the ground floor and takes the red flag from Madame Hucheloup that she has just finished.
Joly takes a tray and collects empty tankards.
As he ascends the stairs, Madame Hucheloup tries to get him to give the tankards back.
Joly starts to melt the tankards in a pot to make more bullets.
Marius enters the first floor to join them at last.
Valjean and Cosette arrive at their new hideout - Marius ties the red flag onto a flagpole - .
Javert in the police station to his men - .
We pull back from Enjolras and Marius holding their flag at the first floor window with the students beyond them to see that citizens have spilled out of the Cafe Musain into the street and have all joined in the final chorus.
Now into view come the leaders of a great FUNERAL PROCESSION.
An entire battalion of infantry, marching with weapons reversed.
A division of Cavalry rides in front, behind a section of military drummers who drum a military tatoo.
All down the streets, waiting, the silent faces of the poor.
A column of black-suited dignitaries carrying branches of laurel.
Softly, in time with the drums, the watching people begin to sing.
Among them we see Enjolras, Marius, and the radical students.
The dignitaries become aware of the singing, and glance uneasily from side to side.
INTO FRAME comes a team of black horses stepping slowly, black plumes nodding, drawing behind them a gun carriage draped in the tricolour flag.
As the coffin on its carriage draws level with the students, Enjolras suddenly steps out in front of the horses drawing the carriage and waves the red flag, stopping the horses and the procession.
The students break the ranks of the crowd and surround the coffin carriage.
Enjolras, Marius and Courfeyrac and other students climb onto the top of the carriage as the horses and led by Combeferre.
Police and national guardsmen control the growing crowds.
The crowd supports them and surround the coffin carriage, blocking the attempts of the police to intervene, singing with passion.
Enjolras, the students, and the impassioned crowd have now become the procession.
They turn off the main street away from the expected course of the funeral procession.
As the procession turns off, the calvary division gallop ahead and disappear round a corner.
Gavroche's elephant looms over this side street.
He slips away through the barricade, which is still rising.
Grantaire prises the final piece of Madame Hucheloup's furniture from her arms - her favourite sewing armchair - and adds it to the barricade.
The barricade is now complete: an impressive wall up to twelve feet high, with one heavily guarded section that can be wheeled open to allow access.
Two smaller barricades protect the left and right side of the cafe.
Enjolras climbs halfway up the main barricade and turns to his little army.
Javert, still in his disguise as a rebel, is let back through the guarded `gate' into the barricaded street.
A single flaming torch atop the barricade caged in by cobbles underlights a fluttering red flag.
They all look up.
There's Gavroche, on the top of the barricade.
Guns swing round to aim at Javert.
He stares back in defiance.
Enjolras faces Javert.
Bullets richochet off the cornices of the houses, bore into the barricade and wound several men.
The red flag falls, the pole sliced through.
Everyone freezes.
Marius brings the torch closer to the powder keg.
But already the soldiers have cleared out.
Marius comes down from the barricade.
As everyone surrounds Marius in amazement he spots Eponine lying propped against the barricade.
With a struggle she pulls the letter out of her pocket, and pushes it into his hand.
He kneels by her side.
Eponine is dying.
Eponine dies in Marius's arms.
Marius looks up at the others, his eyes full of tears.
He holds out his note.
The LANDLADY climbs the stairs, followed by Gavroche.
The door opens a crack to reveal a cautious Valjean.
He looks up, deeply distressed.
He points to Javert, in a dark corner, his hands tied.
Javert looks up and meets Valjean's eyes.
A steady shared look.
Suddenly Valjean spots a couple of snipers creeping over the roofs to gain an angle of attack on them.
They are aiming at Enjolras.
Swiftly Valjean grabs a gun and shoots up at them sending them scattering.
Quickly other students join in and the snipers are driven back.
There is a burst of gunfire from both ends of the street as a brief fire fight ensues.
The snipers have disappeared.
Enjolras turns to Valjean.
Javert hears this with grim satisfaction.
Valjean uses the knife to cut Javert free.
He raises his gun and points it at Javert.
Marius is manically working to raise the height of one of the smaller barricades.
Grantaire drunkenly starts singing a drinking song and it is taken up more seriously by Feuilly.
Bottles are passed round.
Valjean is moving through the cafe when he hears Marius through a window.
He moves to the window.
Marius sits beneath it.
Valjean listens to Marius's song, and he's moved.
Valjean paces, unable to sleep, inside the cafe.
He comes to a stop, and gazes on Marius as he sleeps through the window.
Valjean is now kneeling next to the sleeping Marius.
CRANE UP AND UP - Seeing the little world of the barricaded street now surrounded by waiting soldiers - and the streets round them packed with soldiers in their thousands, so many that we know the little band can never win.
Many of the rest of the rebels are sleeping.
CRANE UP AND UP until the barricade and the army that entraps it has become a small pool of darkness in the centre of the bright lights of Paris.
The sun still below the rooftops.
Enjolras re-enters the barricade through the secret gate.
Below him the students are up and getting ready.
There is silence.
Uncertainty.
Yet no one moves to go.
The rays of the rising sun break through, lighting up Gavroche.
Crack! A musket shot.
Gavroche falls face down onto the barricade.
Enjolras gazes on his pitifully small group.
The sun now appears above the rooftops of the city.
In its wake a massive barrage of musket fire.
Valjean moves among them, tending to the wounded, lifting down the dead, regardless of his own safety.
And the big guns fire - BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! The bombardment hits the barricade, rocking it.
Bullets fly, and every few moments another cannon ball smashes into the piled debris.
The big gun has been lined up with the gate and has burst right through in the first hit.
Enjolras and the students throw themselves onto the barricades, firing at the attackers, handing their rifles down to others to be re-loaded, firing again.
The hard core of student fighters retreat, firing as they go, into the Caf Musain.
Marius takes a bullet, and crumples and falls.
Valjean runs towards him - CRASH! The latest cannonade bursts a hole in the barricade and now the soldiers are storming through.
Students driving back the pursuing soldiers hack away at the staircase, smashing it to fragments - the soldiers below fire up at them - students fall, their bodies caught on the jagged remnants of the stairs.
Students and soldiers fight in the caf , on the stairs, up the stairs to the upper room.
The students' ammunition has run out, they're hurling sticks and bottles - but the soldiers have found a way to clamber up, shooting as they come, and one by one the students are falling.
Valjean has Marius in his arms and is hiding him from the onrush of the soldiers - .
Valjean carries Marius away from the carnage.
The soldiers break through at last to the upper room, to find there's only Enjolras still alive.
He stands by the window, knowing he will die now, proud and unafraid.
Seeing him the soldiers hesitate.
Javert draws his pistol and holds it to Valjean's head.
Valjean meets his eyes.
He moves up from the embankment onto the bridge.
He begins to move away along the embankment, up steps, towards a bridge.
He's unaware of everything except the turmoil in his brain.
He climbs up onto the parapet, reaching his arms up to the night sky.
Here he stands, looking down at the dark water of the night river.
The Seine forms a whirlpool here, where violent currents swirl round the piles of the bridge.
He reaches higher, turning his body, twisting, as if he wants some angel from on high to save him - and so, turning, he falls into the river.
The swirling eddies close over him.
And he's lost.
Women move about the street, seeking their dead loved ones among the bodies that still litter the barricade.
These are both the middle-class mothers of the students - Enjolras's mother, Grantaire's sister - and the working women of the slums for whom they died, united now in their grief.
Slowly he rises from the chair and turns to the doorway.
There stands Cosette, waiting for him.
Cosette holds Marius, supporting him, as he enters the house.
As Valjean and Gillenormand look on, Marius and Cosette sing their love to each other.
Marius stands before Valjean, alone in this more private room.
He's prepared himself to make this confession, but it's still hard.
Marius hears this with shock.
Marius can't conceal that he's disturbed by this revelation.
Valjean comes out of the modest lodging house and gets in.
A waiting cab.
Cosette comes into Marius's arms, tears in her eyes.
Cosette gazes at Marius, bewildered by what she has just learned.
The cab rattles away down the street.
IN THE CAB - Valjean sits gazing far away at nothing.
Then his weary eyes close.
They look round as the dance continues, highly satisfied with themselves and see Marius.
IN ON A WINDOW - Where two candle burn.
Next to the crucifix on the altar are Valjean's two silver candlesticks, in which two candles burn.
He's very weak.
VALJEAN is joined by the ghost of Fantine.
Cosette and Marius rush round the cloisters and enter the chapel in the middle of the cloisters.
Valjean looks round.
It's Cosette entering, followed by Marius.
Marius comes to him.
He holds out a letter for her.
The ghost of Fantine.
Fantine comes towards him, reaching out her hands.
Cosette embraces Valjean, weeping.
Valjean reaches up his hands, and lets the ghost of Fantine take them.
Led by Fantine, Valjean walks out of the Chapel towards the cloister.
What remains is Cosette, her head cradled in the lap of the man who has just died.
The ghost of the Bishop.
The walls of the cloisters are covered in votive candles.
The Bishop of Digne waits in front of the candles.
As they disappear we CRANE UP, high over the cloister, high over the walls of the Convent and we see the Paris streets outside.
Dawn is breaking.
And there marching among them we see ghosts from the past - Enjolras and the students who died - and Fantine - and Eponine - And out of the crumbling elephant peers another ghost: the grinning face of Gavroche.
As THE CAMERA RISES we see we're in the Place de la Bastille.
Now among the marchers we see the ghost of Valjean, singing with the rest atop the barricade, amongst the waving red flags.
The triumphal column has long been completed, but the great elephant is sadly dilapidated and has become incorporated into an immense barricade - three stories high, seven hundred feet long.
As the marchers come nearer we begin to realise how many there are: thousand upon thousand.
As the marchers converge, there watching them are Thenardier and his wife.
We now see CHARLES, big and in an ill-fitting BLACK SUIT, and MARTIN, good looking, in a shirt and tie, at the buffet.
CUT WIDE TO REVEAL that we are in a modest Ohio house in the year Forty-odd friends and neighbors, darkly dressed.
Quiet discussions.
Some crying.
A grey, snow-covered, early February day here in LILLIAN, OHIO.
Many cars are parked outside the house, notably a SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT SQUAD CAR in the driveway.
Joe, a vision of black on white in his too-big black suit, now sits on a small swing set he hasn't used in years.
He solemnly looks down at the LOCKET he still holds.
Then a SOUND.
Joe looks up.
A CAR has arrived -- a distinct BUICK GSX -- a YELLOW MUSCLE CAR with a BLACK RACING STRIPE down its center.
Joe watches as the car sits there for a moment.
Then a MAN gets out.
A man in his early 40's, in jeans and a work shirt.
Joe watches Louis carefully as he moves to the house, to the porch and inside the house.
Joe's eyes glued on the house for a while.
Then he looks back to the locket.
And as he stares, TEARS come to his eyes.
A moment broken by the SOUND OF RAISED VOICES -- Joe turns toward the house.
After a beat, the SOUND of something BREAKING -- something glass.
Then the house BACK DOOR bursts open -- Joe cranes his neck -- and what he sees he'll never forget: his father, Jack, leading an in-pain and HAND-CUFFED Louis Dainard from the house and into the rear of the squad car.
When he slams the back door, he sees Joe.
Sort of freezes as their eyes lock.
But Jack's more uncomfortable.
And Jack gets into the car and drives away.
Joe watches them drive off.
And after a beat, he looks down at the locket again.
Finally he CLOSES IT
Hundreds of KIDS eagerly leave their last day of school for the year, winter a memory.
GIRLS emphatically embrace each other good-bye.
BOYS run off, just happy to be out.
Suddenly Charles is there, red-faced -- he hands Joe PAGES.
They head across the street to the Suddenly Cary is there, a BURN WRAP on his right arm now.
Joe stops.
His friends don't.
Joe, Charles and Cary scan the candy aisle.
Joe just nods and looks at the magazine.
A hectic FAMILY: Charles' mother cooks.
JEN, his smoking hot sister, ANGRILY sets the table where his father pays bills.
Pale sister PEG does a PUZZLE.
Twin YEAR-OLD BOYS bicker over an action figure.
TV in the living room plays a MATCH GAME.
Joe and Charles enter.
Charles grabs a roll.
Joe nods as Jack forces a smile and closes the bathroom door.
HOLD ON JOE.
Stunned and heartsick.
Joe and his father, in civvies, sit beside each other at the counter.
Jack pulls out a PAMPHLET, and places it on the table.
Joe looks at the pamphlet for HEWITT SPORTS CAMP.
Images of happy, smiling, healthy ATHLETIC KIDS.
Joe looks back at the pamphlet -- his other hand coming up from under the table -- and Jack sees that Joe is HOLDING HIS MOTHER'S LOCKET.
Jack wants to cry again.
He wants to throw that locket away, out of sight.
But he just turns away.
Joe stares at the pamphlet.
TIGHT ON QUASIMODO; a plastic, painted AURORA model.
RACK FOCUS to the paintbrush that comes into frame -- FOLLOW IT TO JOE, holding the brush, at his desk, making a model.
A boy's room recently devoid of a mother's oversight; a mess.
COMIC BOOKS and other PLASTIC MODELS, all built and painted by Joe.
CARS and CREATURES and a TRAIN.
All the boys look.
Their faces BRIGHTEN.
Headlights.
The boys stand as the car STOPS beside them -- IT'S THE YELLOW BUICK.
But now, sitting in the driver's seat is year-old ALICE DAINARD.
She sees Joe.
Looking away, she's pissed.
All the boys in silent wait.
She considers, annoyed.
Shakes her head.
The boys EXCITEDLY SCRAMBLE into the car.
The Buick crosses the nighttime horizon, leaving the small town, driving through a rural landscape.
Cary messes with the radio.
Alice looks at him in the rear view.
Their eyes hold a beat.
She takes the Twizzler he offers and looks back to the road.
Joe walks past Alice, who watches him.
Martin sits alone with his copy of the pages, quietly reading and memorizing his lines.
And she looks at him.
Almost as if she were looking for something.
Joe stops stippling.
The tension is almost too much for him to bear.
He indicates the sponge: it's for the make-up.
She does.
Joe starts applying the make-up to her eyelids.
There's something provocative for Joe, being so close to Alice, with her eyes closed.
Alice has been made up, wears a coat with purse.
Martin, in his tie, faces her.
They both look over their script pages as Charles adjusts the camera.
Joe, observing, holds the boom mike (a condenser mike taped to a broom handle), Preston wears an overcoat.
POP! Everyone JUMPS -- Charles turns -- Cary, laughing, has just exploded a firecracker.
Martin and Alice now perform as their characters, DETECTIVE JOHN HATHAWAY and MRS. REBECCA HATHAWAY.
Preston walks past them, acting in the background.
We're TIGHT ON JOE NOW, watching Alice.
Slowly amazed at the unexpected depth and truth she brings to this role.
And holy shit, Alice actually starts to cry as she performs her lines.
Charles watches -- in awe -- he's suddenly, giddily transported.
But it's JOE who, as he stares, becomes galvanized; any vague interest in Alice has just set.
Martin is thrown by the passion and heart of her performance.
And in the heat of it, Alice looks at Charles, unsure.
As Charles runs to Alice, takes her script pages.
They're set to film toward Alice, the approaching train in her background -- Charles puts on the headphones.
And they're shooting.
Joe looks back at the headlights -- and sees something very odd: the distant vehicle TURNS ONTO THE TRACKS.
PUSH IN ON JOE, unsettled -- as the train CROSSES THEM NOW -- Joe looks back toward Alice -- a BLAST OF AIR, shockingly LOUD.
Alice and Martin continue to yell their lines -- Charles is almost LAUGHING at how good this looks -- but Joe LOOKS DESPERATELY BACK toward the headlights -- the train LIGHTING.
And Joe finally swings the mike down and YELLS.
They run off.
Just the odd, dying CHUGS and SCREECH-SCREECH- SCREECH of TRAIN WHEELS running out of momentum, HISSES of STEAM, the unnatural bending of steel.
In the DUST, JOE lies frightened on the ground, eyes tightly shut.
His mind races, his heart pounds -- and then: A LOUD METAL BANG! Joe stands up fast, faces a MOUNTAIN of twisted STEEL -- UPSIDE-DOWN TRAIN CARS PILED FRIGHTENINGLY around him.
Just another few feet and he would've been crushed.
But what was that sound? Something metal? Then again: SLAM! Joe BACKS UP, afraid -- it was almost a LABORED GROAN -- MECHANICAL or ANIMAL?! A crazy SCREECH, another BANG, then AGAIN and AGAIN!!! We see Joe TIGHTLY GRIPPING HIS NECKLACE LOCKET IN HIS HAND -- THEN: CRASH! -- AWFUL-LOUD -- and a TWISTED TEN-FOOT SQUARE.
-- Joe covers his head as the metal STABS THE GROUND, twenty feet away: a TRAIN SLIDING DOOR.
Joe turns to see it -- stunned -- then back to the direction of the NOISE -- but it is GONE.
TIGHT ON CHARLES' CAMERA -- on its side, FINISHING UP A.
Joe MOVES FORWARD -- up to camera -- behind him, Cary appears, smiling.
This kid enjoyed the crash.
Joe WHIPS AROUND -- standing in the dusty mess is ALICE -- shaken, but absolutely alive.
Joe just BEAMS.
But JOE SUDDENLY KNOWS -- he moves to the blood -- reaches below the wheels -- the others watch, freaked out.
Joe pulls out his CRUSHED MAKE-UP KIT.
He brightens.
Joe looks -- they all move to Preston (except Cary, who heads off): CRATES have spilled from a nearby split car; many shattered, revealing THOUSANDS OF SMALL WHITE-METAL CUBES which now litter the ground.
Joe kneels, picks one up.
Behind them, having walked up the ANGLED SIDES of overturned train cars, Cary calls out.
They move up the mass of metal, revealing a VAST VIEW OF THE WRECK.
It seems to stretch on forever.
He points.
Thrown fifty yards from the main wreckage is THE PICK-UP TRUCK.
SHEARED IN HALF UPON IMPACT and lying in the overgrown grass.
BOOM UP from behind the SHATTERED PICK-UP as the kids approach from the wreckage.
PUSH IN ON THEM as they arrive at the truck and STOP; what they see makes Joe's heart pound -- they're stunned -- all of them.
They just stop.
WE SEE NOW: it's DR. WOODWARD -- 75, seat-belted, bloody and unconscious, stuck inside the crushed wreckage.
Alice moves closer,scared and sad for him.
But he's apparently dead; when she nudges him, he LEANS, his arm drops limp from the steering wheel, where he was HOLDING A PAPER, that has now fallen onto the ground.
Joe picks it up.
UNFOLDS IT: it's an OLD MAP -- thin, off-white paper.
They hold it up, the map now backlit and obscuring Woodward.
We see MARKER WRITING ON IT -- a BLACK LINE, from Nevada to Dayton -- and NUMBERS written along the way.
But a SHADOW has appeared: A TREMBLING HAND -- before they can react, it RIPS THE MAP AWAY -- THEY ALL SCREAM AS OLD DR. WOODWARD IS REVEALED, BLOODY EYES OPEN, in a DAZE.
They're all speechless for a moment.
Finally, too loudly.
We're on Joe's stunned face -- but DISTANT VOICES make him turn his head: hundreds of yards away, through the wreck.
The rest turn to look -- their minds are racing, all of them.
The kids start moving away.
Charles arrives on the platform, grabs his camera.
Alice hurries past, hunting for her keys in that big purse -- she eyes the FLASHLIGHT MEN getting closer.
Joe grabs his make-up kit -- another duffel -- runs for the car, past a whining Charles.
As the FLASHLIGHT MEN APPROACH, Joe runs and gets in the front seat, the other boys in back -- Alice SLAMS the car into REVERSE, SCREECH-BACKS UP, narrowly avoids debris, then RIDES OFF -- the FLASHLIGHT MEN arrive -- SOLDIERS -- their adrenaline pumping.
One man who WALKS UP TO THE CAMERA, eyeing the vanishing car with intense suspicion: COLONEL NELEC.
He then looks to the ground in front of him.
CLOSE ON A FRESH, EMPTY YELLOW SUPER 8 FILM BOX.
Nelec steps to it, picks it up.
Looks at it.
Then back up at the disappearing car.
We PUSH IN ON HIS BURNING EYES AND.
RRRRRRRROOOOOOOOOAAAAAARRRRRRRR! The Buick speeds past.
Overlapping mayhem, but Charles obsesses over his camera.
As Alice nervously drives, she shakes her head: no.
Alice nods; if not quite relieved, at least grateful for Joe.
But they all stare off for a long beat.
CRANE DOWN as the Buick pulls up.
The dusty boys pile out.
They all kind of look at each other.
Charles, who looks at Joe for a beat, holds up his defunct camera on the tripod.
Joe nods.
Alice finds something on the passenger seat and holds it out.
Joe goes to the window.
Alice holds it out: THE CUBE.
He takes it with.
It all continues as Joe has entered from the front door.
Joe is moving toward the living room, where Charles sits on the sofa, eyes glued to the TV, A TRAIN CRASH BEING REPORTED ON THE LOCAL NEWS; HELICOPTER SHOT of the wreck.
Both stare at the train crash, stunned.
And we PUSH IN ON CHARLES, going from depressed and lost to.
Joe and Charles ride their bikes into town, across a BRIDGE, the massive STEEL MILL in the background.
TILT DOWN from the town's WATER TOWER -- Joe and Charles ride their bikes underneath it, crossing Main Street -- two large MILITARY TRUCKS drive past, we may note the Airman in the passenger seat SCANS THE AREA with a handheld device.
As Charles opens the camera, pulls out the film.
Charles reacts; he's never smoked anything.
Lower-lower-middle class house, set against woods.
Joe with Alice at her front door.
She seems unnerved.
Joe watches Louis get out of the car -- the man who got arrested at his mother's wake -- carrying a small grocery bag.
He sees Joe and darkens as he approaches.
Joe steps back as Louis arrives; Louis seems to hate Joe, but at the same time, can barely look at him.
Louis goes back inside.
Alice follows, turns to Joe.
Then, quietly, conflicted.
She closes the door.
Alone, despite it all, Joe is happy.
Off his smile, we HEAR LOUD POPS: BAM! BAM! BAM! BAM.
Martin -- as Detective Hathaway -- FIRES A GUN -- shooting CARY, dressed in a dirty suit, as a man TURNING INTO A ZOMBIE -- his eyes WIDE AND GLOSSY WHITE -- and as he is HIT BY THE BULLETS, he SLAMS HIS HAND ONTO HIS CHEST -- BLOOD BURSTS ALL OVER HIM and he FALLS PAINFULLY TO THE GROUND.
We then find CHARLES, behind his camera, yelling out.
WIDE SHOT, rising PAST SIX BICYCLES, thrown to the ground in a typical kid jumble.
Charles, Joe and Preston, with Joe's dad's KODAK CAMERA on tripod, have been filming, their gear scattered.
KEEP MOVING OVER THEM, to Martin and Alice, who were on camera.
Beyond them, in the valley, the TRAIN CRASH seems to go forever.
MILITARY TRUCKS, TENTS and SOLDIERS.
HELICOPTERS buzz in the distant sky.
Joe moves over to Alice, who looks out at the crash.
CLOSE ON JOE as he arrives beside Alice, who looks out at the train, haunted.
Joe stops reloading the gun, looks out, gets lost as well.
Martin has arrives there too.
Preston too.
Joe moves the camera back to Alice -- he looks through the lens -- uses the ZOOM -- and WE SEE JOE'S POV -- the CRASH, ZOOMED IN -- he PANS from ONE CAR TO ANOTHER.
Alice watches Joe, who peers into the camera for a long beat, finally standing up, looking out at the crash.
The kids sit at a table at the window.
The CAR LOT is across the street.
They're talking excitedly but quietly.
A WAITRESS is there, delivering more FOOD.
Cary smiles at Alice.
This lands for Joe -- for all of them -- as we CUT TO.
The massive train wreck that goes on for a mile.
Hundreds of MILITARY work to clean up fast.
A truck DRIVES PAST CAMERA, taking us to Jack and Nelec, who WALK together amid the debris.
Jack looks at Nelec -- not quite believing him.
Jack is with Sheriff Pruitt, who stands, distracted, picking up reports from his desk, on his way out.
Pruitt walks off.
Jack, unsettled, watches him go.
FINGERS TAPPING -- they're fingers on a COUNTER, a WALKMAN sitting beside them.
BOOM UP to BREEN, who digs the BLONDIE he's listening to.
He is alone in the station store.
Behind him, SHERIFF PRUITT enters.
The sheriff throws a candy bar at him.
Breen pulls off the headphones.
He exits the store.
Charles is suddenly there, with Cary.
Gnarly! Charles and Cary head off, planning the explosions.
Alice looks at him knowingly.
Alice considers this -- then, after a beat, starts doing her best zombie.
Joe smiles, `cause it's pretty good.
And Alice slowly leans in toward him -- is this performance? Or is this something else--? And she PUTS HER MOUTH ON HIS NECK IN A FAKE BITE, which makes Joe go still -- a shiver down his spine -- he's never felt anything like this in his life.
And when she pulls back, her performance over, she's smiling.
We're NEAR THE GAS PUMPS, LOW TO THE GROUND -- DOLLY as Jack, EDIE and MR. BLAKELY come out here.
We pass SMALL SHATTERED PIECES OF RED AND BLUE PLASTIC and STOP AND RACK to the GUN Sheriff Pruitt dropped.
Jack kneels by the Smith and Wesson Model Jack checks out the broken BLUE AND RED PLASTIC as he makes a walkie call.
Angry IZZY, 65, OPENS A NEW CAR HOOD: PIECES OF THE ENGINE RIPPED AWAY, MESSY -- DOLLY WITH HIM, Jack follows.
Izzy opens ANOTHER CAR HOOD: PIECES MISSING.
As Jack heads back to his car, THREE RESIDENTS move to him, walk with him, AD LIB.
He stops, noticing FOUR MILITARY TRUCKS DRIVING PAST, SLOWLY, ANTENNAS atop the trucks, and the men inside seemingly scanning the area.
Jack is disturbed by this.
Joe rides along a hillside.
Parks his bike.
Walks toward the edge.
Joe moves into the doorway where his dad and other convene.
Joe has heard this and DROPPED HIS FLASHLIGHT -- the men all turn, silent.
Joe, on the spot.
Joe paints his model on the floor of his living room, watching In Search Of and talking to Charles on his walkie talkie.
middle of nowhere wooded area as an OHIO POWER CHERRY PICKER TRUCK drives up, parks beside a UTILITY POLE.
ROONEY, Cigarette in his mouth, makes notes on a weathered clipboard.
Glances at the power line.
Doesn't understand what he sees -- PUSH IN ON HIM.
He radios in.
A LOUD TOWN MEETING.
Two-hundred frustrated CITIZENS crowd the auditorium.
Jack at the podium, TOWN OFFICIALS, including the local MAYOR sit on stage as well.
Currently, MRS. BABBIT, 52, speaks into the microphone on the floor.
The town ROARS its approval -- Jack, impotent, tries.
The town ERUPTS in agreement.
A short, bald man of 65, MR. MCCANDLESS speaks.
The Mayor takes over as Jack has a SIDEBAR MEETING with Mr. Jack continues, into.
DOLLY FAST with an exasperated Jack as he WRITES, tailed by.
He heads for his office, seeing LOUIS, who is being escorted out by an Officer across the room.
Louis heads out -- HOLD ON JACK AS he turns, ENTERS HIS OFFICE, and as that door opens, we CUT TO.
The door opens of his messy, motherless room.
Joe and Alice enter.
He could not be more self-conscious.
He moves stacks of comic, tosses some dirty clothes behind the bed -- pair of underwear and socks.
He closes the closet and hangs a bath towel on his desk chair.
She looks around sa she enters.
Alice sits on the bed.
Joe takes the FIVE-CAR TRAIN MODEL.
She moves close.
Alice hold it.
Joe watches her.
She really looks at it.
Their tension INTERRUPTED BY an out of breath Charles.
Jack with OFFICER TALLY (24).
Tally puts a MAP on his desk -- DOTS in a CIRCLE, anywhere from a to MILE RADIUS, WITH LILLIAN AT THE CENTER.
Jack is stunned.
Officer Rosko at his desk, with a YOUNG WOMAN, a HAM RADIO at his desk beside a REEL-TO-REEL TAPE DECK.
He takes notes.
Cary behind the camera, Charles beside him.
As it continues, we see Alice behind the camera, watching Joe, smiling.
But then she sees something that disturbs her: Jack's CRUISER pulls up.
Overmyer enters, crosses to Nelec, who reviews a folder.
But Nelec has seen something outside: THE KIDS.
Joe spins around as Jack arrives, grabs his camera from Charles and saying firmly, to Joe.
Joe is stunned -- instantly humiliated in front of Alice -- he's taken back to the squad car.
Jack OPENS the car's back door -- Joe gets in -- Jack SLAMS it shut, then throws the camera and tripod into the passenger seat and SLAMS that door, heading to the house, leaving Joe in the back.
Nelec heads outside -- Jack moves to him.
This lands on Nelec.
Jack heads off.
Jack stops, turns to uncomfortable Nelec.
Joe, his breathing heavying, sits in the car, heart pounding, watching his father move over to talk to Nelec, close again.
Alice watches him sympathetically.
Door opens.
Jack enters, then lets Joe pass him.
Joe closes the door hard and says, angrily, but restrained.
Jack turns to leave -- but Joe, enraged, says.
Jack stops -- stunned -- Joe's heart pounds.
Jack moves CLOSE to Joe -- intimidating -- Joe steps back -- Jack is fucking intense.
Jack suddenly stops himself, realizing what he's saying.
And to whom he's saying it.
But somehow, in this moment, he can't be a better father than law officer.
More upset at himself than Joe, he heads out.
Joe rides UP A HILL -- BOOM UP -- REVEAL THE TOWN CEMETERY.
Joe sits, his back against his mother's grave.
Holds her OPEN LOCKET, staring at it.
But then -- a SOUND -- and Joe turns.
Deep and low, in the distance.
Joe is motionless.
He stands, pulls out his flashlight -- aims the beam down ROWS OF GRAVES, toward the big CARETAKER'S SHED in the distance.
Another INTENSE, LOW SOUND -- then a high pitch HIT, like METAL ON WOOD and Joe backs up, nervous.
Another odd sound -- then ANOTHER -- which TRANSITIONS US TO.
Jack's squad car arrives at the abandoned airfield.
Jack's car pulls up.
He gets out of the car.
Suddenly the three large MILITARY TRUCKS' HEADLIGHTS COME ON -- all aimed at Jack -- he is blinded -- tries to see.
Past an IV and medical machinery.
He's looking at someone we don't yet see.
In the background, Overmyer stands, watching.
Nelec is quiet, simple.
Now we see who he's talking to.
Battered and scraped, he lies in a medical bed, afraid, but defiant.
Dr. Woodward swallows.
Feels that his time on Earth is coming to an end no matter what he does here.
By the door, Overmyer is quietly putting on his BLACK GLOVES.
Nelec offers a vague, searching smile.
Nelec moves to the door, he remains FACING CAMERA, his back to Woodward, as Overmyer moves to the bed.
PUSH IN ON NELEC'S FACE, UNDERSTANDING HIS TRUE NATURE.
Joe sleeps, power still out.
Then, a KNOCK.
He wakes up.
Another KNOCK.
His window.
He moves to it.
Opens it.
Joe is half asleep, but also stunned.
Very quietly.
And Alice climbs in.
Joe sits on the floor.
Alice does too.
It's odd and silent for a moment.
Joe stares, amazed at her.
And the POWER RETURNS -- Joe's CLOCK LIGHT goes on behind him -- but more chilling, the PROJECTOR comes back on; the SILENT HOME MOVIE OF HIS MOTHER PLAYS.
Joe crawls to the projector to stop it -- but.
Alice moves closer to the screen.
Joe sits behind her.
She watches the film.
Can't take her eyes away.
A tear drops down Alice's face, though Joe can't see that.
Finally, quietly.
Watching his mother, Joe is quietly stunned.
Just then, the SUPER 8 movie ENDS: the film FLIPFLIPFLIPS.
Joe turns off the projector -- but a SOUND REMAINS.
A sort of SHUDDER-HUM.
Then they look: THE SHUDDERING IS COMING FROM THE CUBE HE TOOK FROM THE CRASH SITE, sitting on his desk.
Joe and Alice move to it.
The cube VIBRATES, almost imperceptibly.
Joe opens a drawer, grabs a paintbrush -- he touches the cube -- the thing SHUDDERS ON ITS OWN.
They are amazed.
They get LOW -- eyes at desk level -- the SHUDDERING INCREASES IN PITCH AND VOLUME -- he reaches out to touch it with his finger, but suddenly the cube BULLETS AWAY -.
FIVE-INCH HOLE IN THE WALL! She screams -- they both fall to the floor, STUNNED -- PUSH IN ON Joe, his heart pounding.
He moves to the wall -- looks through the hole: in the distance, trees and the TOWN WATER TOWER.
Alice enters the dark house quietly.
She steps carefully toward her room, when.
A tense beat, her mind races.
Breathe, Alice, just breathe.
This kills her -- but she does: she leaves the house.
Alice, crying, gets on her bike and rides off -- a DISTANT FIERY GLOW past the factory and over the hills.
The front door opens -- Louis comes out and yells, miserable.
But she's far gone -- Louis' mind races -- he runs to his BUICK -- starts it up -- PULLS OUT FAST and goes after her.
Alice PEDALS HARD, she wants to escape everywhere.
A block behind her, SCREECH: a CAR turns onto the road.
Her father's car -- she makes a turn.
We're with Louis as he drive -- clearly drunk.
Alice makes a daring stop -- turns back up the hill, pedals hard, crying and hyperventilating.
Louis sees her, tries to stop, but can't -- and his car SLAMS.
Alice GASPS -- stops pedaling -- looks back at her father's car, wide-eyed and terrified -- should she go back?.
Louis is bleeding.
Badly hurt.
He adjusts himself -- painfully -- then looks into the CRACKED-GLASS REAR VIEW.
Alive is still looking back at the car -- SO SHE DOESN'T SEE THE SHAPE THAT IS COMING BEHIND HER -- and just as she decides: I'M NOT GOING BACK, she turns to begin riding on.
Louis tries to get out of the car -- but it's painful -- and his door is JAMMED SHUT -- he goes for the passenger door.
-- when Louis finally gets out -- he runs from his car -- stumbling drunk and bleeding -- SCREAMING, SHREDDING HIS.
The distant factory, the even more distant mountains, and an ominous PLUME OF SMOKE -- a far-off SIREN is HEARD.
Joe stands at the counter with Charles, who is in a bad mood.
Donny's returned with a DEVELOPED FILM ENVELOPE.
He gives Charles his change.
Charles heads off -- Joe follows.
As Charles rides off with the film, Joe follows -- and we BOOM UP along the WATER TOWER as they go.
As we CONTINUE BOOMING UP, we arrive at the top of the WATER TOWER, where THE CUBE HAS AFFIXED ITSELF TO THE SIDE -- unseen from the street.
As Joe and Charles ride their bikes up to his house.
Frustrated beyond belief, Charles goes inside.
Joe follows.
Charles threads the film into the projector.
And suddenly on the poster board pinned to the closet, there she is: ALICE, from the night of the train crash.
The scene plays as they filmed it.
THE FILMED SCENE CONTINUES as Joe and Charles argue.
Joe's mind spins -- how does he respond to this?.
They watch for a moment as the TRAIN CRASH HAPPENS -- but it's SO SUDDEN, SO FAST, the camera picks up almost nothing.
Within a moment, the camera is on its side, filming the SETTLING DEBRIS.
Charles moves forward, so the film is now partially BEING PROJECTED ON HIM.
Joe moves forward.
Part of the film PROJECTED ON HIM, too.
But Joe has seen something -- on the screen -- SOTTO.
But Joe has slapped Charles' arm, his eyes locked to the screen -- Charles looks too -- AND NOW WE SEE IT: through the.
FROM THE TRAIN CAR, THROUGH THE WRECKAGE -- what the hell is it? TOO DAMN BIG -- MOSTLY OUT OF FRAME, ITS SHAPE AND FLESH TOO BIZARRE -- we only see the LEGS as it clears frame.
ON FILM -- then from outside: AN AIR RAID SIREN RAMPS, WHINING THROUGH THE TOWN.
The boys look at each other -- afraid.
QUICK CLOSE-UPS as they REWIND THE FILM AND RIP IT.
WIDE SHOT of the neighborhood -- in the distance: MILITARY TRUCKS, JEEPS AND BUSES drive.
NEIGHBORS coming from their homes in the MID-GROUND: confusion and talk, more VEHICLES.
Finally, as we BOOM DOWN, RACK TO JOE AND CHARLES, trying to make sense of this -- Joe calls to a passing adult, MR.
Mr. Harkin POINTS -- Joe turns to look -- we PAN: THE DISTANT.
VARIOUS SHOTS of MILITARY busses STOPPING -- SOLDIERS ORDERING AND ASSISTING PEOPLE ONTO VEHICLES -- carrying all the belongings they can.
Others quickly LOAD UP CARS, strapping belongings to the roof.
Other people in a panic, running to find others who are lost.
He heads off.
ORDERS are being BARKED -- RESIDENTS can be heard, complaining and arguing.
Walkie SQUAWKS and PA ANNOUNCEMENTS as SOLDIERS check their wrist bands.
Joe passes an ARGUING MAN and SOLDIER.
A THOUSAND PEOPLE so far.
LOUIS lies in a cot in the TRIAGE UNIT, fifty beds transferred from the hospital.
Louis stares off, head bandaged, eyes open, MUTTERING TO HIMSELF, like a man as tired, hung over, injured and in shock as he is.
Find Joe, who is looking everywhere for his dad -- he finally sees Louis and hurries to him.
And Louis GRABS HIS SHIRT and pulls him close.
In a voice desperate and heartsick, he says.
Joe's mind is on fire as he absorbs this -- HE WHISPERS.
And Louis looks at him with hope.
They look at him like he's from Uranus.
Jen, Charles' hot sister, lies on her cot making her Columbia House Records choices.
Charles is in her face.
Jen suddenly closes her magazine, stares at him suspiciously.
Jen looks RIGHT AS US, vulnerable, but seductive.
Now we see Donny, looking RIGHT AT US.
Utterly stunned.
MOVING PAST as Donny moves through PARKED CARS, Joe, Charles, Cary and Martin keeping up.
The boys duck as SOLDIERS pass by.
A small, tiled room, no windows.
Jack, up all night and pissed off, but bored being pissed off, POUNDS ON THE DOOR.
He POUNDS again.
The door finally unlocks and opens.
A humorless, armed SOLDIER stands there.
Jack is led down a dilapidated, narrow hall.
Soldier with the semi-auto behind him, aimed at his back.
As Jack passes an open door, he spies an empty office -- through the window on the tarmac are a few MILITARY VEHICLES, a handful of airmen.
Jack's mind races as he approaches the bathroom at the end of the hall -- Jack turns.
SLAM-FLATTENED BY JACK, who KNEELS to him.
PUSH IN CLOSE -- his eyes wide, mind racing -- WHAT THE HELL NEXT? CUT TO.
BEHIND A SOLDIER as he RUNS through the dark building -- oh shit -- he comes to a stop, back against the wall -- but PUSH IN on his face: IT'S JACK, IN AN AIR FORCE UNIFORM.
He is fucking scared; at least he's holding a rifle.
He peels around a corner -- through a window, the tarmac: GUARDS, VEHICLES.
Jack's eyes shift -- he spots an AIRCRAFT FUEL TANK.
Eyes wild -- A METALLIC CLI-CHUNK AS HE UNSAFETIES THE.
A SOLDIER crosses to a vehicle, on his radio when KAFA- BOOOOOM! The FUEL TANK EXPLODES, A MASSIVE BLAST! The airmen take cover, RUN TO MOVE NEARBY VEHICLES, GENERAL MAYHEM -- and our CAMERA BOOMS UP -- to the MILITARY JEEP THAT DRIVES.
Jack behind the wheel, he blasts the vehicle through the exit, along the road back to town.
Jack drives up in the jeep -- comes to a stop in SHOCKED CLOSE UP -- we see in the distance the MASS OF VEHICLES driving from town -- Jack's mind races.
The jeep RACES past camera -- we PAN -- revealing as.
Donny drives, Joe shotgun.
Charles, Cary and Martin in back.
Donny YANKS the steering wheel -- he turns onto a DIRT ROAD -- the car RUMBLES away from camera.
Donny's car pulls up, lights go off.
The kids pile out.
A SHOT of the boys CLIMBING A FENCE.
They move fast across the alley, to a TRAILER locked with A PADLOCK -- the DUNGEON.
Joe tries PRYING the locks off with the tire iron -- it doesn't budge.
Joe hands the tire iron to Charles -- he tries -- nothing.
As Martin grabs the tire iron.
Martin breaks off the LATCH -- BAM.
Now we CUT TO DARKNESS -- we're INSIDE THE DUNGEON as it opens -- the boys look DIRECTLY AT US -- their faces say it all: THE MOTHER LODE.
The boys -- with FLASHLIGHTS -- turn a corner -- hurry down the hall.
The boys BREAK A CLASSROOM DOOR WINDOW and enter.
We're looking down at the boys, SURROUNDED by hundreds of documents, boxes, photographs, film cannisters and cassette tapes.
Charles threads the film.
Joe holds up a PHOTO of MEN IN A LAB.
Among them is WOODWARD.
Cary puts a CASSETTE into a tape deck, hits PLAY.
We see inside a HANGAR, where dozens of SCIENTISTS examine LARGE, BUS-SIZED pieces of jagged and unearthly material.
Scientist explaining something to a group of SENIOR OFFICERS.
Among them, a NELEC.
Film JUMP CUTS to a HUGE REINFORCED LAB CAGE.
Inside, sitting almost in a ball, IS THE MASSIVE CREATURE.
Another JUMP CUT as a SOLDIER offers a bucket of FOOD to the alien -- IT'S WOODWARD.
The boys are SCARED as they watch the creature HOLD WOODWARD TIGHT -- LIFT HIM -- and its TENTACLES suddenly THRUST into his NOSE, EARS and MOUTH -- Joe stands and looks intently at the screen.
Just then a MUFFLED SHATTER-CRASH.
Suddenly BOOM! The doors BURST OPEN and ARMED COMMANDOS.
Donny gets stoned in his car.
Doesn't notice the MOVEMENT in the distance behind him.
The MILITARY coming in.
The locker hallway: the Boys are HANDCUFFED AND SCARED, being led out by ARMED SOLDIERS.
Nelec moves to them.
Overmyer CHECKS THEIR POCKETS as Nelec TAKES CARY'S BACKPACK, opens it -- pulls out some FIREWORKS.
Joe's terrified as Overmyer pulls from Joe's pocket a couple COINS, half a pack of Bubble Yum and HIS MOTHER'S NECKLACE.
Drops everything but the necklace.
Joe reacts, panicked.
Joe's on the verge of tears as Overmyer POCKETS the necklace.
Off the TERRIFIED BOYS as they're ushered away.
The BOYS are put onto the bus -- BOOM DOWN to DONNY'S CAR IN THE FOREGROUND, where we realize that WE HAVEN'T BEEN THE ONLY AUDIENCE TO THIS: Donny, sunk deep in his seat, hiding, watches wide-eyed as the bus DRIVES AWAY.
His stoned mind races.
Staying hidden from the remaining military, Donny scrambles for his CB, turns to CHANNEL 9, grabs the mike, speaks quietly, frantic.
Jack moves fast through the crowded evac area.
Preston reads ISAAC ASIMOV'S SCIENCE FICTION MAGAZINE -- suddenly Jack is there, grabs him and pulls him up.
PAN as Nelec moves back -- we PUSH IN on OVERMYER, who sits near the front, putting on his DARK GLOVES.
Nelec sits, which takes us to a shot towards the back of the bus -- another Airman, HERNANDEZ, 40, sits too.
PUSH PAST THEM toward our four BOYS, sitting cuffed and seat-belted behind the dirty, wired SAFETY GLASS, all looking toward us, terrified.
GLASS! The ENTIRE BUS IS ROCKED, Charles SCREAMS, hurt -- At the front of the bus, NELEC FALLS -- HITS A BENCH, THEN.
The bus was hit SO HARD it rides for a moment ONLY ON ITS.
The MILITARY DRIVER struggles with the wheel.
The bus SLAMS BACK onto the road, LOUD -- A TIRE BLOWS! We.
The kids panic as the HOBBLED BUS STILL DRIVES.
PUSH IN on Cary, to CLOSEUP, looking PAST CAMERA, TERRIFIED.
CHARLES SCRAMBLES to unlatch his seatbelt.
BAAAM!!! The bus is SLAMMED SO HARD.
Windows SHATTER -- Charles and Cary -- seatbelts removed -- LAND ON JOE AND MARTIN! The THREE SOLDIERS hit the window- floor painfully -- Hernandez so hard he's INSTANTLY.
Nelec rises.
Scared, but pissed.
The REAR WHEELS of the bus SCREAM in rotation -- we COUNTERMOVE with the creature as it COMES AROUND the other side, CLIMBS onto the exposed side -- METAL AND WINDOW.
The boys gather their wits -- LIGHTS FLASHING HAUNTINGLY.
Joe moves to the locked bulletproof glass door -- tries the handle -- but it's never gonna open.
On the OTHER side of the glass, Nelec rights himself, momentarily disoriented -- breathing heavily, he moves away from the bus door to the locked glass separating him from the kids; he tries the handle, but it won't open for him either.
And there is Joe and Nelec, face-to-face -- Joe seeing the fear in Nelec's eyes -- his understanding that this is his fate.
Somehow Nelec takes this moment to look into Joe's face -- to silently -- in a look -- repent.
Instantly, Joe knows he's about to watch this man's life end.
SMASH! Nelec turns -- the creature is BUSTING the bus door -- SMASHING AT IT -- to make it BIGGER.
So it can get inside.
Joe hits again -- so does the creature -- as Nelec RUNS OUT OF AMMO.
Joe hits again and CRASH! The window SHATTERS! Glass chunks RAIN DOWN on the boys -- all covering their face -- Cary seeing the CREATURE.
With all the boys helping, Joe pulls himself up -- outside the bus, Joe peeks out -- the fucking creature -- its back to Joe -- just fifteen feet away, focused on the door -- and Joe strains to climb out here, onto the top-side of the bus.
TERRIFYINGLY DOWN THE AISLE TOWARD HIM.
And as the creature descends upon him, in the silence before the final lunge -- Nelec says, eerily quietly, terrified.
Standing is hard for heartsick Louis, his legs so hurt -- suddenly JACK IS THERE, acting the role of Air Force.
As the two Soldiers head off, Jack wraps Louis' arm over his shoulders, heads off in the other direction, as Louis looks him over, confused.
On LOUIS' FACE -- a surprised glimmer of HOPE.
Moments later, TIGHT on a POCKET -- Joe pulls out his MOTHER'S NECKLACE.
WIDEN to see that he's taken the necklace from Overmyer's dead body.
Cary holds up his backpack.
They turn: a car comes, fast -- PUSH IN ON JOE who studies the oncoming car, as behind him.
The car ARRIVES: It's DONNY.
He gets out of his car, wild- and red-eyed, incredibly happy to see them.
Donny looks at Joe, like it hurts to think.
Joe drives, Donny is ASLEEP.
Other boys in the back.
Joe quickly turns left into a driveway -- but we PUSH IN TIGHT ON HIM -- from the direction they just came are MORE TANKS AND MILITARY VEHICLES -- Joe's eyes go wide -- they're stuck.
GUNFIRE CONTINUES.
Joe and the boys get out of the car fast and RUN across the street, zig-zagging between the enormous MILITARY VEHICLES.
Soldier hurries off.
Joe in the lead - they turn and look back -- a massive shot of the neighborhood under fire -- houses getting BLOWN TO SHIT in collateral damage.
An EXPLOSION HITS TOO CLOSE -- the boys SCREAM as they run BETWEEN HOUSES -- and WE TRACK WITH THEM -- four boys racing through a neighborhood under siege -- power GOES OUT -- and some explosions are much closer than others -- another BIG HIT and they go to a back door of a house -- and go inside.
-- they run in for cover -- they're silhouetted in this dark space by the EXPLOSION LIGHT emanating from the windows.
They're all out of breath in a strange KITCHEN.
Another CRAZY LOUD AND BRIGHT EXPLOSION -- the light fixtures sway.
Charles grabs a coke on the counter.
Another fucking LOUD BLAST -- sound of GLASS BREAKING -- and the creature ROARING -- And there it is, in silhouette, moving past the bay window -- Joe realizes: where the creature is, so are the blasts.
Joe runs -- the others follow.
But as they get to the living room a HUGE EXPLOSION BLOWS OUT A WALL! They all go down -- but Martin is in agony all of a sudden -- his leg RIPPED by concrete.
But there's blood and Martin is in real pain.
Charles wants the tie around the curtains, still hanging on the wall that now has a HOLE in it; MILITARY VEHICLES can be seen driving past outside.
Joe hands Charles the thick fabric tie -- which Charles fashion into a tourniquet, wraps it around Martin's leg, tight.
Charles looks at Martin -- can't argue.
Charles nods -- Joe looks to Cary.
Martin screams.
Joe and Cary run through the semi-demolished neighborhood, many houses shattered, some cars obliterated.
The only lone figures in town.
Joe and Cary stop, out of breath, at the graves.
Joe and Cary run through the graveyard and over to the.
They're out of breath -- they try ONE garage door, windows CAKED WITH DIRT.
The SECOND door.
Dirt-caked windows.
The third is a barn door -- they try it: locked.
The two begin KICKING the door together -- on three -- one -- two -- CRASH! Again and again, until finally the door KICKS OPEN -- and they almost FALL INSIDE -- and thank goodness they didn't -- because -- and now we're looking STRAIGHT DOWN FROM INSIDE THE SHED -- the entire floor of the shed has been DUG OUT -- DROPPING FORTY FEET STRAIGHT DOWN, dirt PILED, caked along the sides of the structure.
The boys catch their breath.
Cary opens his backpack, whips out a Fourth of July SPARKLER.
LIGHTS it with a lighter and DROPS IT IN.
The thing falls far enough to tell them it's too far to jump.
But burning on the dirt floor of the nearly-dug hole, it lights up a TUNNEL at the bottom.
A JEEP roars past.
Jack drives fast.
Louis sits beside him.
It's awkward.
But not angry.
Finally, vulnerable, scared and sad.
Jack looks at him for a moment, then back to the road.
A small nod of forgiveness and gratitude.
Louis wants to cry again, but just accepts it.
Joe begins CLIMBING DOWN the ROPE.
Joe lands on the bottom.
Dark as hell -- looks up -- at Cary climbing down into the hole -- the barn roof looming above him.
Now Cry lands too.
There are THREE POSSIBLE WAYS TO GO.
Joe's mind races about which way to go.
They begin their walk into the dirt tunnel, a TALL OVAL.
We're SO FAR AWAY, that the screen is mostly black, with a small speck of SPARKLY LIGHT.
They come to an area LITTERED WITH THE STUFF OF A LIVING ROOM.
They look up: ANOTHER HOLE LEADING DOWN, DUG STRAIGHT THROUGH A HOUSE.
They continue, coming to an INTERSECTION -- where a NEW TUNNEL branches off.
There's DIM LIGHT from up ahead, where the tunnel BENDS.
The RUMBLING/MECHANICAL SOUND LOUDER now.
Joe and Cary slowly move forward -- seeing something off-camera that scares and amazes them all at once.
They cross to the other side.
Cary bumps into a HANGING SHERIFF PRUITT.
Cary is about to scream, but Joe puts a hand on his mouth and leads him away from Pruitt.
Makeshift HANGING BULBS provide some light; a number of other TUNNELS are visible from here, too.
Joe and Cary look at the space in disbelief.
Then Joe sees something that makes him grab at Cary's shirt.
Cary looks: THROUGH THE MASS OF METAL AND MACHINERY AND.
IT'S A HUMAN LEG.
Joe and Cary would SCREAM if they didn't need to stay quiet.
In a panicked WHISPER.
Joe moves away from Cary to get a better view of the other side of the machinery -- and there he sees, in an INSET section of the rock-wall, THREE HUMAN BODIES, HANGING.
TIGHT ON JOE as he sees, among them, ALICE.
His heart POUNDS, his resolve quadruples.
Cary sees her too.
Stay with Cary, who opens his backpack, starts pulling out his amazing array of EXPLOSIVES, glancing up to make sure he's out of the creature's view.
MOVE FAST with Joe as he races, a LIT SPARKLER giving him his light -- the MECHANICAL RUMBLING all but gone now.
Joe runs, looking for another way into the creature's massive space -- he finally finds another INTERSECTION -- he turns into it -- he disappears down the tunnel.
Cary's made a long, insane pile of FIRECRACKERS -- he uses an OPEN M-and begins laying a SQUIGGLY, LONG LINE OF GUN POWDER back, away from the firecrackers -- away from the entrance to the creature's CONTRAPTION space.
The SPARKLER DIES as LIGHT BEGINS TO REVEAL JOE, who slows -- peers around the dirt tunnel bend -- he is now on the OTHER SIDE of the space.
He sees the creature -- then looks across to the lifeless body of Alice.
Cary's done laying out the charges -- he pulls out his lighter -- FFFT! FFFT! The damn thing won't light.
FFT! FFT! No go -- he keeps trying.
Joe watches as the creature FINISHES WITH ITS MEAL AND HEADS.
Cary frantically trying the lighter -- FFT! FFT! FFT.
She's CATCHING HER BREATH, nodding, looking at him, amazed.
She GRABS HIM AND HUGS HIM TIGHT, teary and grateful -- during which -- quietly.
But she breaks out of the hug and grabs his shirt, intense.
TINA, a , disoriented woman with curlers in her hair, wakes up.
Joe and Alice have helped down one FAMILIAR FACE: SHERIFF PRUITT.
They're out of breath, but their survival instinct has kicked in.
Joe and Alice follow.
They run into a tunnel.
He takes off.
Sparkler lighting the way, we're with Joe and Alice -- Pruitt and Tina behind them.
terrifying as the foursome sprint in the opposite direction! After RUNNING HARD for a beat: They haul ass, but after a long moment TINA IS GRABBED AWAY INTO THE DARKNESS!!! HER SCREAMS CONTINUE behind them -- They run and run and run, but then BOOM: they hit a DEAD END.
A DIRT WALL.
Out of breath, they turn -- but dare not go back toward the horrifying blackness.
The only SOUND the sparkler, their erratic breathing and the.
AND THE THING LOOKS AT HIM.
REALLY LOOKS AT HIM.
AND AFTER A LONG, SCARY BEAT, THE CREATURE SETS HIM DOWN.
Joe backs up as the creature TURNS FAST AND SPEEDS AWAY.
FORMED -- but here, as he is being hugged by his father, Joe LOOKS DOWN: SOMETHING IN HIS POCKET Is MOVING -- he considers it, confused for a moment -- but he reaches in and pulls it out.
HIS MOTHER'S NECKLACE -- and he holds the chain, but the LOCKET PULLS TOWARD THE WATER TOWER -- wanting to go.
Joe knows what this means.
AND THIS IS WHEN WE GO INTO SLOW MOTION -- FROM HERE UNTIL THE END.
After a long beat, Joe HOLDS THE NECKLACE UP, toward the tower -- the thing PULLING.
TEARS in Joe's eyes as he looks up at it -- not wanting to let go, but knowing he must.
Jack, heartsick, watches his son, on the verge of letting go.
Alice watches Joe, on the verge of tears -- except Joe just can't bring himself to do it, not now, not ever.
Pulled by the invisible force, THE LOCKET POPS OPEN.
And we see what's inside.
A PHOTOGRAPH of Joe's MOTHER.
A young woman, HOLDING HER ONE SMALL BABY.
And Joe looks at his mother -- and in this moment, she at him and Jack's eyes suddenly WELL WITH TEARS -- Alice, too, tears streaming down her face and finally Jack reaches out -- and puts his hand on his son's shoulder -- which was all Joe needed, really.
JOE LETS GO.
OUR SCORE SOARS AS, IN SLOW MOTION, the necklace SHOOTS ACROSS THE MAIN STREET UP.
STREET AS THE MAJESTIC SHIP COMPLETES ITS FORMATION -- and that's when Joe sees the CREATURE, LEAVING -- CLIMBING UP THE.
And we PUSH IN on Charles and Marin, who watch, amazed, as the distant light RISES INTO THE SKY.
And we PUSH IN as DONNY SLEEPS, the REFLECTION OF THE RISING SHIP seen in his windshield.
Joe and Alice, Jack, Louis and Cary watch, amazed, as the ship disappears into the night sky, we are TIGHT ON JOE'S HAND, as it takes ALICE'S.
And looking skyward, Joe smiles.
Abby steps away, not wanting to ponder Larry's balls anymore than she has to.
She walks in on a shouting match between JOSH, a leftist angry news writer, and DORI, the entertainment-leaning co-writer.
JAVIER, the new fat weatherman, takes a huge bite.
They all laugh.
Abby talks to STUART WARDLOW, 60's, KPHX's curmudgeonly general manager.
Abby looks worried.
Abby nods.
She rips out an extra two feet of floss.
She holds up her clipboard, which has the guy's E-Harmony PROFILE and PHOTO.
Abby stops flossing and looks at Joy.
There's an awkward silence between them.
She pulls out another piece of paper, and hands it to him.
She hears a noise coming from her bedroom and looks to see D'Artagnan's paw in the fish bowl, trying to scoop up a goldfish.
He holds up several books in his hands, reading the titles.
He drops the books on the floor, picks up a can of gasoline and pours it on the books.
Mike shoves a burnt marshmallow into his mouth.
He mimes swallowing.
WE PAN off the television to the bed, where Abby now watches, appalled.
Mike hangs up the phone.
Abby, now infuriated, picks up the phone and begins dialing.
WE INTERCUT between the stage and her apartment, as Mike continues his rant.
Irritated, Abby begins to compulsively remake her bed.
Mike bowls over LAUGHING.
Abby and Joy make their way into the conference room.
Dori and Josh are already there.
ON TV: Mike's face appears.
Joy looks at Abby.
Abby holds up a piece of paper.
Stuart takes the memo, reading it.
Abby spins to face Stuart.
Abby is pacing, clearly on the verge of hysteria.
A KNOCK.
Then the door opens and Mike appears.
Abby glares at him.
He stares at her, surprised.
Abby gags as she pushes past him and walks out.
Abby strides down the hall with Georgia and Larry.
Mike gives a cocky wave.
Abby and the control room crew watch the proceedings.
In the control room, Abby smirks.
Cliff shrugs.
In the control room, Abby looks like she's going to pass out.
Larry grabs Georgia and kisses her hard.
After a moment of resistance, she melts into his arms.
Larry throws Georgia over his back and hauls her off the set.
Abby is sitting in a ball in her closet.
Mike's sister, ELIZABETH, 40's, walks in, wearing a nurse's uniform and holding a cake box.
She hands him the cake box.
She gives him a kiss on the cheek.
He grins.
She fumes, jabbing the earpiece in his ear.
He crosses to -- a CANDLE-LIT TABLE with a fancy dinner placed in the center.
Several books rest beside it.
Beside the table, a man plays violin.
Mike exits the stage door and walks into the alley, followed by the confused camera crew.
As Abby looks horrified, the PHONES in the control room start RINGING off the hook.
Realizing her defeat, Abby sighs.
Abby grabs the microphone for Mike's ear piece.
ON THE MONITOR -- A slightly puzzled look from Mike, but he lifts the girl's finger and licks the Jello off it.
As Mike waves to camera, he's pulled into the Jello pool and the girls rip off his shirt.
Mike walks in, covered in Jello, to find Abby standing there, arms crossed, quietly containing her rage.
She walks off.
Confused by her reaction, he follows.
CLOSE ON Stuart, wearing a grave expression.
Abby nods, uncomfortable.
Strategically placed cardboard suns and clouds cover her bosom.
Abby covers the cat's eyes, then looks away.
But a moment later, she's looking back in the window, to see -- Colin step out of the shower.
Abby leans closer to see Colin start flossing, wearing only a towel.
She freezes.
Mike approaches them.
She turns and walks off.
Abby enters her office.
Mike follows her.
Colin, in a white doctor's jacket, talks on the phone while going over patient files.
Mike picks up the extension and listens in.
Abby glares at him, but she can't stop him.
A concerned look from Abby as the phone rings.
She thinks, looks at the phone again.
She answers the phone.
A confused look from Colin as he talks on the phone.
Abby hesitates.
A long pause.
Mike hangs up the phone.
He hustles her out of the room.
Night has fallen on the condo complex.
Abby enters, looking amazing in a little black dress and sling backs.
She grabs his ass.
Switching tactics, Abby slips into seductress mode, tracing her finger up and down his arm.
She seductively leans into him.
She gives him a look.
She leans in closer.
He shoves her away.
Mike leaps over the couch and hides.
As Abby walks over to the door and opens it.
Colin stands there.
She hustles him out the door.
Abby realizes she's spoken aloud.
Abby blanches, waiting for Mike instructions.
She grabs a napkin and starts rubbing his khakis.
THE JUMBOTRON CAMERA follows the guy catching the fly, then finds Abby and Colin.
PANS over to them and -- It looks like Abby is giving Colin an enthusiastic HAND JOB.
The ENTIRE STADIUM, ballplayers included, stop what they're doing and stare.
Colin gives a wave and walks toward his condo.
Abby pretends to enter her house until she sees Colin close his front door.
Then, she turns around and rushes over to Mike.
She throws her arms around him, embracing him.
Mike pulls back, a little uncomfortable.
Abby rolls her eyes with a smile and goes inside.
As Mike is walking away, he turns back for a moment, then keeps walking.
Abby looks away haughtily.
Abby sits on the couch staring at a box of ELECTRIC.
She opens the box, dumping out a pair of underwear and a REMOTE CONTROL.
Abby checks herself out in the mirror.
As Abby, Mike and Colin walk into the bar, two buxom blonde twin JELLO GIRLS, BAMBI and CANDI, rush up to Mike.
They slap him on the back, eyeing the twins.
The group sits down at the table.
Abby tries to kick Mike.
As she does, she unwittingly knocks over her purse.
The contents spill out and the REMOTE for her vibrating underwear rolls away, stopping UNDER THE TABLE.
A PRECOCIOUS KID, 8, sits with his parents.
A small RED LIGHT turns on.
As Harold and Bob laugh, Stuart slaps Mike on the back.
Suddenly, her smile quickly changes to horror.
She shifts in her seat, trying to control her NOW-VIBRATING.
She leans down to grab her purse.
She pokes her head under the table to see that the contents of her purse have spilled.
Mike's head appears next to hers.
Mike starts laughing.
Stuart watches, worried, as Abby rises from underneath the table, clutching her head and looking around frantically, trying to figure out who has the remote.
The kid has flicked up the speed on the remote even higher.
Abby's eyes roll back.
She starts to get up when Stuart stops her.
Candi looks at Harold, intrigued by Abby's display.
As Stuart frowns, concerned, Abby spasms, then rushes through it as fast as she can.
She leaps to her feet.
As they all walk out, Mike grabs the remote from the kid.
Abby spots this and snatches the remote out of Mike's hand.
She shoots him a look.
Colin walks up.
On set, Mike addresses the camera.
NEARBY, a confused Joy looks at Abby.
Georgia winks at him.
Abby looks at the agent, confused.
The CAB DRIVER looks at her.
Mike walks out of the lobby, as Abby gets out of a cab, suitcase in hand.
Abby glares at him, about to show her true feelings, but then quickly covers.
Abby and Mike sit in the backseat.
Abby looks down at her notes.
Mike studies her.
Abby sits there, fuming that he's right.
Mike looks at her, surprised.
The audience applauds as Mike takes a deep breath and heads on stage.
Abby now sits in the audience, watching as Jay interviews Mike on stage.
Abby talks on the phone.
Abby's surprised, then suspicious.
The waiter arrives with mojitos.
Abby looks at him.
Abby sips her mojito, studying Mike.
Mike sighs, deciding to level with her.
Just then, the waitress walks up.
He stands up.
Abby looks out at the dance floor, seeing that even the worst dancers are great.
Mike grabs her hand and leads her onto the dance floor.
Mike and Abby make their way onto the crowded dance floor.
They give a longer kiss.
Mike starts out the elevator, then returns, grabbing Abby.
And suddenly -- They're ALL OVER EACH OTHER.
In the midst of this, the elevators try to close but their furious groping blocks it, until -- A shrill BUZZING begins.
They abruptly step apart staring at each other.
Mike backs out of the elevator, looking shell-shocked.
The doors close.
Abby is flushed and stunned.
Abby sinks down onto her bed, wearing the same expression.
She leaps up, smooths her hair, checks her reflection, and goes to the door.
Opening it with a smile, she finds -- Standing there, bottle of red wine in hand, is Colin.
He walks in the room, holding up the wine.
Mike approaches Abby's door.
Mike reels, trying to cover his shock.
Abby appears behind Colin.
He turns and goes.
Mike walks down the hall, freaked out and perturbed.
Abby runs to catch up with him.
He keeps walking as she tries to keep up.
He stops and looks at her.
They hold eye contact for a very long moment.
Mike looks away.
He shrugs and walks off.
Abby enters the room.
Colin stands there, still shirtless.
Abby takes the glass and drinks.
And keeps drinking.
Abby finishes the glass and looks at him.
Abby smiles, pleased, then he continues.
Abby's smile fades.
Abby looks at him, nodding, then.
She looks around.
Abby is hurt and stunned, but overcomes it with fierce and abiding hatred.
Abby and Joy walk through the waiting area, which is filled with MIKE ALEXANDER REPLACEMENT HOPEFULS of all different shapes and sizes.
Abby points at candidates, while Joy makes notes on a clipboard.
Joy looks at Abby, a little worried.
Stuart sits in the control room next to Cliff.
Jack Magnum does his intro, now standing in a balloon basket.
Mike looks over to see -- ON THE TV -- Live footage from the Balloon Fiesta.
Jack Magnum continues to alienate his audience.
At this Jack Magnum is tackled and pushed out of the balloon basket.
After a moment -- A frazzled ABBY pops up in his place.
Stuart and Cliff watch from the control room, in shock.
Stuart picks up, then blanches.
Abby stands in the basket, still nervous, but flying on adrenaline.
Mike stares at Abby on TV for a second, then grabs his keys.
He races out, as Jonah calls after him.
She turns to see -- MIKE standing there.
He pushes past Joy and climbs into the balloon.
Grabbing the mic from Abby's hand.
NEARBY, Joy taps her watch.
An OVERZEALOUS BALLOON PILOT walks up.
IN THE BASKET, Mike looks at the camera.
BEHIND HIM, the Pilot silently boards the balloon.
The TORCH of the BALLOON is suddenly fired, covering her FBC violation.
The cameraman follows the balloon as it slowly starts to rise.
Abby and Mike spin around to look at him.
Realizing the balloon is now soaring upwards.
Mike starts to climb out.
Mike looks down to see -- They are now FIFTEEN FEET ABOVE THE GROUND.
He stops climbing, as the balloon continues to float up and away.
Stuart and Cliff stare at the monitors, eating it up.
Mike is thrown, turning to look at her.
Jonah now sits with Elizabeth.
They both stare at the TV in shock.
For the first time in her life, she stops thinking and -- Grabs Mike and kisses the hell out of him.
The balloon WHOOSHES upwards.
Debbie gets out of the shower.
Pete follows.
Pete sneaks down the hallway.
He kisses SADIE (13) as he wakes her.
She wants to be left alone.
Pete breathes all over her as he talks.
Pete lifts a sleeping CHARLOTTE (8) out of bed and walks her downstairs.
It looks ridiculous because she is too tall to hold her like she is a baby.
Pete and the kids set up a tray of muffins and donuts on the table and decorate the room with birthday balloons, streamers, etc.
Pete sneaks bacon, cupcakes, and mini donuts into his mouth occasionally.
The house is a bit more cluttered and messier than when we last saw it in Knocked Up.
Debbie opens a window and sneaks a cigarette.
Sadie watches Lost on her iPad while Pete and Debbie talk in the kitchen.
Pete clears the breakfast dishes.
He turns on the faucet and pours water on the cupcake.
Charlotte plays the theme from The Office on her keyboard.
Sadie tears apart her closet looking for clothes.
Debbie is in workout gear.
Pete enters wearing a lycra outfit with all sorts of logos on it.
Debbie leaves.
Pete picks the soaking wet cupcake out of the sink and takes a bite.
Debbie runs up a long flight of stairs with her trainer JASON.
Her friend BARB trails behind.
We see Pete in a large group of bikers riding down San Vicente.
Pete's friend BARRY is part of the group.
A car makes a right turn in front of Pete, nearly hitting him.
Pete bangs on the back of the car.
Debbie is doing sit-ups while talking to Jason, who holds her feet down.
In the background, Barb stretches on a yoga ball.
Jason demonstrates.
Pete and Barry eat frosted scones, happy to get some alone time to delay their return home.
The family is driving.
Sadie watches an episode of Lost on an iPad.
Sadie stares at her iPad.
We see a violent scene.
Charlotte grabs for Sadie's iPad, then starts trying to lick her.
Pete and Debbie get out of the car and walk down the street.
Pete and Debbie enter and we see their two employees, JODI and a new, gorgeous employee, DESI, who is up on a ladder.
Debbie goes behind the register.
She looks at Jodi.
Pete is still staring at Desi on the ladder.
Pete walks over to Debbie.
Desi comes down to help a CUSTOMER at the front of the store.
We see quick cuts of Debbie playing with the kids on the trampoline outside.
She does a full flip and lands on her feet.
Pete is nowhere to be found.
Debbie walks down the hall and into the bathroom without knocking.
Pete is on the toilet playing Scrabble on his iPad.
She angrily grabs his iPad and walks out.
Pete stands on stage speaking to a small crowd.
The crowd applauds as Graham Parker (60's) leaps on stage.
Pete and Debbie watch Graham sing a very moving song.
We watch Debbie.
Although the music is great, it's a little depressing and not working on her.
She quickly gets bored.
Pete and Debbie are driving home.
An ambulance drives by, sirens blaring.
Pete and Debbie walk in mid-argument.
Sadie is listening to a song on her iPhone.
They all laugh and dance and go crazy.
Pete turns the iPod off.
Pete starts dancing around like it is fun.
Pete stops his music.
Pete sits with the kids and eats breakfast.
Debbie scurries around him to prep the kids for school.
Charlotte runs away towards her room.
Sadie screams.
Debbie covers Sadie's mouth.
Another parent, BETH, and her adorable child walk over.
Beth and Katie walk off.
As they walk into class, the teacher pulls Debbie aside.
The teacher walks away before Debbie can defend herself.
As Debbie pulls out of the lot, she lights a cigarette.
Pete paces around his office on the phone.
Pete is with RONNIE and CAT, employees at his record label.
They are watching an electronic press kit cut together for Graham Parker.
There is a montage of him performing throughout the years from the seventies to the present.
Angle on Graham and a journalist wearing a yarmulke.
Angle on Pete, Cat and Ronnie.
Graham walks up.
Pete and Debbie are talking.
Debbie holds a list of changes she wants to make.
Pete picks up a guitar and starts playing with it.
Pete and Debbie are in bed.
Debbie has a computer on her lap.
We reveal that Debbie is watching security cam footage of the store.
We watch the footage and suddenly Desi's BOYFRIEND enters.
He walks behind the counter, and she sits on his lap.
She adjusts herself.
On the screen, they kiss.
Desi seems to be popping up and down a little.
Pete farts.
He farts again.
It is longer.
Debbie hits Pete with a pillow.
Pete farts again.
Charlotte jumps around in front of Sadie's door.
Sadie sits on her bed quietly doing homework.
Charlotte grabs her own head and makes it look like she's being dragged away.
Charlotte plays air guitar.
Pete tosses a packet of M&M's in the garbage.
He throws out all of his cupcakes except for one.
He takes a bite, tries to throw it but again, can't.
He takes another bite, holds it over the garbage, then takes one last bite before dumping what little remains.
Pete runs on a treadmill while getting an electrocardiogram.
Debbie is getting a mammogram.
The machine clamps too hard on her breast.
She screams.
Pete gets his testicles examined.
Debbie is getting a colonoscopy.
Debbie has some sort of very painful oral surgery.
She's a little high from the laughing gas.
Dr. Bowe has his finger inside of Pete's anus, giving him a prostate exam.
Debbie is at the Gynecologist.
He is the same one from the beginning of Knocked Up, DR. PELLIGRINO.
Debbie's legs are up in stirrups.
Two nurses enter the exam room.
Debbie comes in the bedroom.
Sadie runs down the hallway.
Charlotte tries to open the door, it's locked.
Debbie is giving Pete a blow job out of frame.
Pete is sitting on a chair, super happy.
Charlotte shoves Sadie.
The fight between Sadie and Charlotte escalates and becomes physical.
Muffled screams from the girls outside.
Pete walks to the front door.
His father, LARRY, greets him.
A low flying lets us know he lives too close to the airport in a small house.
Pete sits down and talks with Larry.
Two other identical children enter and jump on Larry.
The three exit.
Larry stands up and walks outside.
Pete follows.
Larry prepares to spray the kids with the hose.
Larry sprays him with the hose.
Larry's wife, CLAIRE, enters.
Larry gets up and walks outside.
A nervous Debbie approaches a hostess.
Debbie sees OLIVER (65) sitting stiffly at a table.
Oliver takes out his iPhone and starts showing Debbie photos.
He exits.
Debbie picks up his iPhone and sadly scrolls through all the happy pictures of his new family.
The family's hanging out, relaxing at dinner.
Charlotte holds her iPhone to her face using an app that animates her mouth to look like a talking monkey's.
Charlotte holds the iPhone monkey app to her lips again.
Sadie gets up and stomps off.
She walks off.
Pete and Debbie drive down the Pacific Coast Highway.
The car pulls up to a beautiful hotel in Laguna.
Pete makes a wood chipping splatter noise.
Pete runs into the bathroom.
He looks for the cookie.
Pete and Debbie eat the cookie.
They sit in silence for an incredibly long amount of time, staring through each other in a haze.
They are stoned.
They're laughing and having a good time.
Stoned, Pete and Debbie jump up and down on the bed.
They fall down on the bed, kissing.
Almost totally under the covers, they watch as a WAITER brings in a room service cart full of food.
Pete does magic tricks for the waiter.
Debbie hands Pete a banana and two oranges, which he holds to his crotch in front of the waiter.
Pete eats a bite of the banana.
Debbie crawls on the floor while Pete lays in bed.
Pete stands with a starfish sticking out of his underwear.
They eat room service.
Chips and desserts and everything.
She tries to deep throat it.
Pete loves it.
Pete and Debbie drive back from Laguna.
They could not look happier or more refreshed.
They hold hands and smile at each other.
They pull up to their house, shut off the car and sit for a beat, knowing they're about to head back into the stress of the real world, not wanting their peaceful, loving time to end.
Sadie walks outside.
Jodi follows her.
Charlotte is crying really hard.
Charlotte sits on the table.
Pete and Debbie are talking to DR. SEDUKU, a foreign doctor.
Dr. Seduku has both an accent and a lisp.
Pete cycles with the crew.
Debbie looks around the house for Pete.
Debbie sees Pete on the bed, his legs up in the air.
He still has his bike top on but is naked from the waist down.
He is trying to look at his back end.
He is holding a mirror and an iPhone.
Pete has his naked legs hiked up over his head.
Debbie takes a very quick glance inside.
Debbie talks to Jodi while they fold clothes and watch Desi.
Debbie walks over to Desi.
Desi picks a shirt.
Desi begins to take all her clothes off in front of Debbie.
Debbie squeezes Desi's breasts.
Pete talks is in his office on the phone with his REALTOR.
Sadie and her friend WENDY run around the yard with Charlotte and the triplets.
Larry and Debbie greet the kids when they enter the kitchen.
Larry picks up one of the triplets.
Charlotte leaves with the triplets.
Larry takes some of the food she's throwing out.
Wendy exits.
Sadie runs off.
Pete enters from the hallway.
He sees Larry and turns around before anyone notices him.
Pete and Debbie are in bed.
Pete is reading Sadie's iChats on her confiscated iPad out loud to Debbie.
They hear a door slam.
Debbie gasps.
Debbie starts looking through the iPad.
Pete's iPhone chimes.
He sees a message from Ronnie from work.
He looks over at Debbie who is oblivious.
Pete paces.
Pete is driving.
Sadie and Charlotte sing show tunes loudly and happily.
Pete is very upset about the record not selling.
Debbie is talking to their ACCOUNTANT.
Pete enters and walks into Ronnie's office.
Ronnie is drawing on a blackboard behind his desk.
Pete walks out of Ronnie's office and into the main office space.
Ronnie follows.
Debbie sits in Dr. Pelligrino's office.
Debbie drives.
We cannot tell what she is feeling.
Then after a few beats, a joyous smile appears across her face.
Pete takes a framed item off of his wall.
Larry answers the door.
Pete is there with a framed drawing made by John Lennon.
Pete hands him the drawing.
Sadie and a bunch of other kids are building sets for a school play.
Sadie talks with a FRIEND.
Pete and Debbie are watching from afar, sitting next to each other.
Debbie tries to gently break the news.
Debbie is totally deflated.
Debbie is walking through the campus upset.
She sees a kid and darts over to him.
JOSEPH (13), the kid who insulted Sadie on her Facebook, turns and sees Debbie.
She gets even quieter, scarier and more in his face.
Joseph looks upset.
She storms off.
Debbie pulls open the door, Pete is on the toilet playing on his iPad.
Debbie exits.
Pete flips her off after she's gone.
Debbie and Desi are talking as they walk down the stairs into a loud club.
Debbie and Desi talk to a group of young men, PROFESSIONAL.
He takes a plate of his teeth out.
Desi takes them and tries to put them in her mouth.
Everyone laughs.
Desi looks insane.
She tries to kiss Debbie.
Everyone is laughing.
She hands the teeth back to their owner.
He pops them back in and everyone cheers.
Pete on stage in a half-filled nightclub.
Pete watches Graham Parker perform with his band.
The song is amazing.
It is about issues Pete is going through, and he is really connecting.
BILLIE JOE ARMSTRONG sits nearby, watching the show.
Desi and Debbie dance with the hockey players to a Nikki Minaj song.
Debbie lets loose, she's having the time of her life.
Debbie is talking to a hockey player named JAY who is twenty- four and cute.
They laugh.
Graham is packing up to go.
Pete approaches him.
Billie Joe comes over to congratulate Graham.
They walk away.
Pete sits in the car crying.
Debbie is dropping Desi off at her apartment.
Debbie looks shocked.
Desi nods.
Pete on his iPad laying in bed.
Debbie comes in to talk.
Debbie's shirt is unbuttoned and she is topless.
She exits into the bathroom.
There's silence.
Debbie returns, dressed.
Pete walks out of the room.
Debbie follows.
Charlotte plays piano in her room alone.
Through the wall, she can hear Debbie and Pete fighting.
Debbie starts walking away.
They all are laying in bed watching Spongebob Squarepants.
It is tense.
Charlotte is licking her fingers.
Charlotte does it more.
Charlotte pokes Sadie with her wet fingers.
Sadie leaves and slams her door.
Charlotte leaves.
Charlotte writes a note at her desk.
Charlotte walks by Sadie's room.
She puts the note up on the door.
Pete sits alone, listening to music.
Sadie sits alone watching Lost on an iPad.
Debbie rests next to Charlotte in bed.
Pete is sleeping on the couch.
Pete sits at the counter.
Debbie and the kids are at the breakfast table.
Pete is driving Sadie and Charlotte to school.
Pete is eating an egg sandwich and manically singing along.
Pete walks Charlotte in.
He gives her a kiss then walks back towards his car.
On the way he bumps into Joseph and his mom.
Pete thinks for a moment, not sure how to handle this.
He pokes her shoulder.
Debbie is talking to Jodi, who is crying.
Debbie's phone buzzes.
Pete and Debbie are sitting across from VICE PRINCIPAL LAVIANI.
In another seat is Joseph's mother, Catherine.
Debbie tries to hide a smile.
Pete and Debbie leave the school together, surpressing smiles.
They get in separate cars and drive off.
Debbie is making dinner.
Pete and Charlotte sit at the table.
She walks off.
Sadie does her homework on her bed.
Charlotte brings in Sadie's electronics and puts them down in a pile beside her.
Charlotte walks away and starts to slide the door closed behind her.
Debbie is sitting on the couch.
Pete paces around the room.
They hug.
The shades are closed and the room is dark.
Sadie watches the end of the last episode of Lost on a laptop.
Pete enters.
Debbie is speaking with Barb as they set up the kitchen for a barbecue for Pete's fortieth birthday.
Desi jumps in the pool in a small bikini.
She is playing in the water with the kids.
Angle on Barb and Debbie.
Angle on Barry and Pete.
Angle on Barb and Debbie.
Barry and Pete turn toward their wives, smile and wave.
Pete greets guests, including Graham and Grandma Molly.
Pete and Ronnie are talking in the backyard.
Debbie walks over with Jason.
They leave Ronnie and Jason alone.
The guys spot Desi swimming in the pool.
Debbie and Pete open the front door.
Standing there is Oliver.
He gives a nervous smile.
Debbie looks at him and tries to be nice, but we feel her effort.
She opens the door wider.
They do not hug.
He hands him a bottle.
The party is in full swing.
Pete, Debbie, Oliver, Barry and Barb are getting food from the buffet.
Barb and Barry are trying to help keep the conversation going.
Larry arrives, with Claire and the triplets.
Claire is holding two of them, while Larry carries one.
Larry lifts one of the triplets up and down by the arms, simulating an elevator.
Larry puts Jack down and he runs off.
Claire runs off.
Sadie, Charlotte and Desi walk over.
He gives Desi a hug.
Oliver gets up.
Charlotte, Sadie and Desi run off.
Oliver follows.
Desi is gracefully swimming under water.
She looks gorgeous.
She sees Jason and Ronnie under water, but they look grotesque, red-faced and awkward.
They both reach for each other and come to the surface.
Desi swims away.
Larry is talking to Oliver.
Oliver smiles, amused.
Jason and Ronnie are talking to Desi.
Debbie, Pete, Larry, Oliver, Barb and Barry are eating.
Ronnie, Jason, and Desi talk.
Oliver gets up to leave.
Oliver walks out.
The party is tense.
Debbie looks over and sees that Oliver never actually left.
He stands in the back looking uncomfortable, quietly singing.
She's shocked he's still there.
Debbie smokes a cigarette at the side of the house.
Sadie appears.
Debbie turns, caught.
She walks away towards the house.
Sadie follows.
Sadie storms through the front door after Debbie.
Debbie keeps walking down the hall.
Sadie follows her.
Barb is in the kitchen with Pete and Charlotte.
Debbie turns the corner to find Pete standing in front of the fridge, stress eating.
Debbie storms off back towards the foyer.
Larry pops out from the living room, stopping Debbie in the foyer.
Claire and the triplets are right behind him.
Pete throws his cupcake against the wall.
Larry and Claire walk away as Pete storms in.
Oliver passes Pete and turns to Debbie as Pete walks away.
Debbie is stunned.
Debbie follows him out the door and onto the front porch.
She closes the door behind them.
Debbie looks at him for a moment.
Larry opens the door and peeks out.
We reveal that everyone at the party (except Pete) is still standing in the foyer.
From the side of the house we see Pete storming by on his bike, wearing his street clothes and a helmet.
Pete exits his home riding his bike.
He is very angry.
He rides with great emotion like he is trying to get all the frustration out of his body.
Pete rides his bike onto San Vicente Boulevard.
Pete rides down the street.
A CAR passes by him.
When it does a fifteen-year-old TEENAGER sticks his head out the window and yells to scare Pete.
Pete almost falls.
Debbie and Barb are cleaning up.
They look out the window to see Oliver picking up glasses and putting them in a bin.
Sadie walks in with Joseph.
Sadie walks off.
Joseph follows.
A car honks when traffic clogs up behind him.
A car makes a right turn, and Pete almost rides right into it.
He pulls up alongside Jason's van.
Desi is riding with Jason.
They speed off.
Oliver and the kids are playing with an iPhone.
Debbie walks outside.
Debbie exits.
Sadie turns to Charlotte, puts her arm around her.
Charlotte smiles, delighted to be accepted by her sister.
Pete starts riding really fast and passes a car.
When the car stops for a red he keeps going, tears off to the left, crosses four lanes of traffic in both directions and almost gets hit.
Pete rides his bike up a steep hill.
He passes some other bikers almost hitting them.
Debbie drives around the neighborhood with Larry in the passenger seat.
Pete flies down a steep hill going crazy fast.
Close up of his front wheel shaking.
It is as if he wants to crash.
He rides down the street when suddenly a MAN IN A RANGE ROVER opens his door to exit his car and Pete slams directly into the man's car door -- hard, breaking the man's window and falling to the ground.
The man is an incredibly thick fifty-five-year-old.
Pete slowly gets to his feet.
They drive near the scene of Pete's accident and overhear.
The man punches Pete in the face where he's already bleeding.
Debbie sees the punch and gasps, realizing it's Pete.
Pete looks stunned.
He punches the man in the gut, to no effect.
The man punches Pete back in the stomach.
Pete sinks to the ground.
Debbie watches Pete fall to the ground.
She opens the car door and starts to run over toward him.
As the man starts his engine, Debbie runs toward Pete.
The car drives away, revealing that it is new and has dealer's plates with no numbers.
Debbie reaches him and holds his head up.
Debbie and Larry sit in the waiting area of the hospital.
A NURSE walks over to them.
The Nurse walks away.
She hugs him and starts to cry a little bit.
He grabs the bill out of her purse and walks off.
Oliver is sitting on the couch with Charlotte and Sadie watching the last scene of Lost.
Joseph has joined them.
Debbie walks into Pete's room, sits on the bed next to him.
Debbie laughs.
As Debbie helps Pete off of the hospital bed, Pete kisses her passionately.
Pete smiles.
She smiles at him and he smiles back, almost blushing.
This is the smile he has been waiting for.
He leaves the house and heads towards the light.
The old man is wandering up to the house carrying a lit torch.
He opens the front door, inside is just as dark.
He begins climbing the stairs, we hear whispers and hushed voices coming from upstairs.
The old man waits outside the room where the conversation is taking place and listens on.
A snake slithers past the old man and into the room.
Wormtail stands in the doorway and looks at the old man.
The old man looks terrified.
A loud spell is cast and Harry wakes up in a flash of panic.
Harry is flustered and still panicing.
Hermione goes over to Ron's bed.
They shake hands.
They walk on up the hill.
Camera homes in on a boot on top of the hillside.
Everyone is in a circle putting their hands on the boot.
Harry rushes over and puts his hand on the boot.
There's a white flash and suddenly they're all flying through the air.
Everyone cheers.
Harry, Hermione and the young Weasleys crash to the ground with a thump.
Arthur, Amos and Cedric come down more gracefully.
Cedric helps Harry to his feet.
They walk across the field and we see there's a massive crowd gathered and cheering, tents are set up all over.
They walk into the crowd, taking in the sights.
They approach a small tent.
Amos and Cedric separate and walk off.
They enter the tent, the inside is many times bigger than the outside.
They take their feet off the table and put them back on as soon as Arthur has walked past.
We pan up the hillside onto a large stadium which seems to have a huge number of floors.
The Weasleys and Harry are finding their seats.
Lucius Malfoy and Draco are walking below them.
The ceremonies begin.
Balloons fly and fireworks go off.
Five green and white figures fly through the air on their brooms leaving a colored trail behind them.
A glittering leprechaun appears in the sky and starts dancing.
Everyone is excited.
Five red figures this time, one of them performs a stunt on his broom.
One of them appears on the large screen.
Viktor Krum waves to the crowd.
Harry joins in.
The crowd is paniced and rushing all over.
Harry is trampled unconscious.
The crowds have all gone.
A man walks through the rubble kicking at things.
He casts a spell which causes a bright flash and a large ghostly skull forms in the sky with a snake crawling from it.
The man grins evilly, clearly demented.
Harry stirs and witnesses the man standing there.
Harry runs.
They look at the monstrous thing in the sky, Harry holds his head in pain.
Suddenly they are fired on.
Arthur and others approach.
Harry, Ron and Hermione are seated on a train.
The lady appears at their door.
Ron sees he hasn't enough money.
Cho Chan walks up to the trolley.
Harry and Cho look at each other and smile.
Hermione sees Harry rubbing his head.
We see four flying horses flying through the air pulling a carriage coming in to land at Hogwarts.
The crowds cheer.
A large ship emerges from under the water and approaches too.
A man runs up the aisle limping in a comical way, he whispers something to Dumbledore and leaves in the same fashion.
A group of girls dressed in blue dance up the aisle and release butterflies into the air.
They bow and everyone applauds.
A series of older boys walk up the aisle brandishing bo staffs, twirling them around and periodically stabbing them into the ground with a spark effect.
The boys breathe some fire.
They embrace.
The man seated next to Hagrid yelps.
Hagrid has stabbed a fork into his hand.
A strange man stands in the doorway, he casts some magic upwards and seals the roof.
Peace is restored.
This character enters the room and begins walking.
He see Harry through his mechanical eye.
He limps, breathing heavily as he goes.
The crowd is unsettled, people are booing.
Dumbledore casts magic over a box which melds into a goblet containing a blue flame.
We see a suspicious character enter the room where the goblet is still burning and close the door behind him.
He writes his name on the board.
Mad-Eye throws the chalk in anger.
Mad-Eye pops open a jar with a spider in it.
He uses his wand to send it around the class.
The class is unsettled.
Draco laughs.
Mad-Eye sends the spider onto Draco's face.
Mad-Eye has the spider over a bucket of water, it's wriggling.
Neville Longbottom stands.
Mad-Eye begins torturing the spider with magic, it squeals.
Mad-Eye stops.
Neville is disturbed.
Mad-Eye picks up the spider which is still making a noise.
Hermione shakes her head.
He casts a spell and the spider disintegrates.
He approaches Harry's desk and takes a drink.
They see a boy on the stairs facing the window.
Mad-Eye approaches Neville and pats him on the shoulder.
Neville nods.
Older students are placing their names into the flame and others are applauding, Cedric is one of them.
The twins come up cheering.
They jump inside the age line, and cheer.
They put their names in the flame and do a high-five.
The flame fires up and they're flung across the room onto the floor.
When they get up they have full heads of grey hair and beards.
Fred You said.
They roll around fighting on the floor and the crowd cheer.
The room suddenly becomes silent as Viktor Krum walks in and puts his name in the flame.
He looks at Hermione and she smiles.
Dumbledore approaches the blue flame and it glows red.
A name comes out.
Everyone looks on anxiously.
The Durmstrang crowd cheer.
Another name comes out.
The Beauxbatons girls cheer as Fleur walks up.
Another name comes out.
Hogwarts pupils cheer as Cedric takes the stage.
People cheer, but the goblet glows red once more and another name flies out.
Dumbledore takes it and reads.
Harry slowly walks up.
Dumbledore gives him the paper.
Harry is in a room with the other champions.
Dumbledore bursts in and grabs Harry.
Harry is silent.
A woman appears in a puff of smoke.
She's well groomed and dressed colorfully.
The four tri-wizard champions are stood together in a group.
She walks over to them and shakes each of their hands.
She takes Harry by the hand into a closet.
An owl flies in with a letter for Harry, he takes it and begins to read.
The owl nips Harry's finger.
The fire flares up a little, a face appears in it.
Ron enters the room.
Ron leaves.
Harry goes to the fire again but Sirius is gone.
Neville waves.
Hermione and Ron are walking up to them.
Ron whispers some words to Hermione.
It's clear Ron and Harry are not on speaking with each other
Hermione walks up to Harry.
Harry and Hagrid are walking through a dark forest.
Hagrid is looking more dapper than usual and is carrying a big red flower.
Madame Maxime calls out to Hagrid.
Harry does as he's told.
A huge flame fires up.
We're zoomed in on a badge, it depicts Cedric on a bright yellow background.
As Harry walks along other pupils aim insults at him saying he stinks.
A young boy runs past.
Harry gets to a doorway, two pupils stand in his way.
They laugh, Harry pushes his way through.
He approaches Cedric who is standing around with his friends.
Cedric's friends hurl off more insults.
Ron and Seamus are walking along.
Harry approaches them.
Draco calls out, he's sitting up a tree.
Harry walks away and Draco angrily tries casting a spell.
Mad-Eye appears and quickly turns Malfoy into a ferret.
Mad-Eye is making the ferret hover around.
He sends it up the trouser leg of one of Draco's friends.
He squirms and looks uncomfortable.
Everyone else is laughing.
Mad-Eye winks to Harry and he laughs.
Eventually it comes back out and McGonagall turns Draco back to normal.
Draco runs away.
Mad-Eye shouts after him.
Mad-Eye takes off his prosthetic leg and takes a seat.
The crowds are cheering, people are taking bets.
Harry is pacing nervously.
Hermione is standing by the tent door whispering in.
Hermione enters the tent and they hug.
A bright camera flashes, Rita Skeeter the journalist approaches.
Rita leaves and Dumbledore enters.
The champions gather around him in a circle.
Barty holds up a bag.
Fleur takes out a little green dragon.
Viktor takes another out .
Cedric picks one.
Harry puts his hand in the bag and pulls out the dragon.
The cannon fires immediately.
Harry is sitting alone nervously.
Harry enters the rocky arena.
The crowd are cheering his name.
He sees the golden egg sitting alone, he makes a run for it but the dragon appears.
Harry's forced to retreat behind a rock as the dragon flames him.
Harry stumbles and falls around the arena.
Harry summons a broom.
He jumps on and flies off, the dragon gives chase.
The dragon bursts through the crowd and they look stunned.
Harry is flying at high speed around the Hogwarts buildings.
The dragon cuts him off and whips him off his broom, he lands on the roof of Hogwarts, hanging on for dear life.
The dragon is clambering across the roof, strewing tiles as it goes.
Harry reaches his broom but it's stuck.
He jerks it loose and lets go of the roof just in time before the dragon swipes at him.
He falls a long way but regains control.
He flies on to an area with a bridge, he flies through a gap in the bridge but the dragon crashes into it and falls into the water.
The crowds are mostly silent.
We see Harry flying towards us and the crowd erupts.
He goes straight for the golden egg.
Harry is lifting the golden egg, people around him cheering.
The Weasly twins have Harry sitting on their shoulders.
Seamus hands Harry the golden egg.
Ron appears in the doorway.
Harry is looking at Cho.
When she looks back he spills drink from his mouth.
They laugh at him.
A young boy walks up holding a package.
Nigel is gazing at Harry.
Nigel leaves.
Hermione laughs.
Groans emerge from the boys who are listening on.
The girls seem a lot more excited.
They try.
She grabs Ron and pulls him up to dance.
He does so and a wolf whistle comes from the crowd.
The girls instantly stand and walk forward, the boys are all still seated.
Neville stands.
Groups of girls are giving them icy looks and turning their backs.
Hagrid and Madame Maxime are walking together.
They laugh together and have a moment.
Viktor Krum is training, a group of girls are following him around.
Severus Snape walks past and slaps Ron over the head.
Ron gasps.
Hermione storms off.
Harry is walking up some steps.
He reaches the top and bumps into Cho who has come around the corner.
Ron is being helped into the room, he looks shaky.
Ron shakes his head.
The Patil twins walk past.
Ron is getting dressed in front of a mirror.
He looks paniced and uncomfortable in his ridiculous dress robes.
Harry walks in, he's dressed in a more conventional suit.
He sniffs at his clothes.
Harry and Ron are walking down the stairs into the hall.
Ron is fidgeting with his outfit.
The boys approach the Patil twins.
She looks at Ron.
Hermione enters the room all dressed up.
Hermione walks down the stairs.
Viktor Krum takes her hand and they walk together.
They dance.
Soon others are joining in, Dumbledore and McGonagall, Mr Filch and his cat, Hagrid and Madame Maxime.
Mad-Eye sits on the sidelines drinking.
Cool!.
The crowd is jumping.
Harry, Ron and their dates are sitting some distance away looking miserable.
Hermione comes up after a great time with Viktor.
Hermione walks off.
Harry walks up.
Harry and Ron walk away.
We're back in the old house.
A sleeve is rolled up and a marking of a skull and snake in on the arm.
Harry wakes up.
The floorboards are creaking, someone is walking up to his bed.
He chuckles and dances off.
Harry nods.
Harry is taking his clothes off, he gets in the bath.
He has his golden egg on the side.
The ghostly figure of little Myrtle flies around.
Myrtle flies around again and gets in the water.
Harry takes the egg and puts it under the water.
Harry does so and goes underwater himself.
Myrtle laughs and Harry is embarrassed.
Mad-Eye Moody appears in the doorway.
Neville appears from behind a bookcase.
The Weasly twins are shouting, busy taking bets.
Harry is walking along with Neville, he has some green plantlife in his hand.
Harry puts the gilliweed in his mouth and starts choking.
The cannon fires and the champions enter the water, three of them dive in while Harry is pushed.
Underwater the effects of gilliweed take hold, Harry's hands and feet become webbed.
Harry flies into the air like a dolphin and the crowd cheer.
Harry swims among the fish and rocks.
Harry is still searching around.
He finds Ron, Hermione, Cho Chan and a blonde girl from Beauxbatons tied in place by their ankles.
Cedric is there, he takes Cho with him.
Harry sets about freeing Ron and Hermione but vicious merpeople appear.
What looks like a shark approaches at high speed.
We see that it has legs and it's Viktor.
He takes Hermione and heads for the surface.
Harry frees Ron.
Cedric and Cho emerge, the crowd cheers.
Viktor and Hermione next, the crows chants 'Krum, Krum, Krum'.
The Beauxbatons girls look worried.
Harry looks over and sees the blonde girl that Fleur was unable to rescue.
He loosens her rope too and starts heading for the surface with the both of them.
He's attacked and gets held down, he pushes Ron and the girl towards the surface.
Ron and the girl come up, they are coughing but safe.
They're helped out of the water by a girl from Beauxbatons.
Underwater Harry casts a spell which propels him towards the surface, he flies out and lands on the decking where the crowd are.
Fleur kisses Harry on the face.
Fleur kisses him too.
Hermione kisses Harry on the head.
Cedric and his friends cheer.
As they're walking away from the lake Harry's friends are cheering him.
Barty Crouch is waiting for Harry.
Mad-Eye approaches them.
Barty walks away from him.
Harry holds his head in pain.
On the ground he sees Barty Crouch laying lifeless.
Mad-Eye points to the door.
Harry enters.
Harry is left alone in the room.
He puts his hand in the snackbowl and takes a handful.
It turns into a small creature which nips at his hand.
The man seated next to Dumbledore speaks.
Dumbledore and the man shake hands.
Their handshake goes through Harry's body, he appears to be some kind of ghost with no presence.
Proceedings begin, a cage is raised from inside the floor.
Igor protests loudly.
Barty hits the gavel repeatedly.
Barty Crouch junior begins to run.
Mad-Eye zaps him with magic, he falls into the center of the court.
The crowd is in uproar.
Guards seize Barty junior.
Dumbledore puts up his wand and pulls a quivering string of magic out from his head.
The door opens and they see Harry.
He looks at them.
Igor leaves.
Severus closes the door in Harry's face.
The champions emerge.
The crowd cheer on hearing his name.
The bulgarian crowd go nuts.
The cannon goes off.
Mr Filch shrugs comically.
Dumbledore groans.
Harry and Cedric enter the maze through different entrances.
The entrance closes up behind Harry.
Heavy mist sets in, we pan out to see the maze is many stories tall.
Cedric is walking along, the maze walls begin to close in on him.
He makes a run for it.
Fleur is running around scared, she is attacked and knocked down.
Viktor comes along and sees she's unconscious on the ground, he walks on.
Harry sees Fleur being swallowed into the undergrowth.
He's too late she's disappeared.
He sends up a red spark into the air.
A heavy wind starts blowing, walls are closing in, Harry runs.
Harry sees something shining in the distance and he moves towards it Viktor tries to zap him but misses.
Harry ducks and Viktor gets zapped by Cedric.
Cedric runs up and kicks the wand out of Viktor's hand.
He points his wand at Viktor's body as if to finish him off, Harry runs up and intervenes.
They struggle.
The two of them begin running towards the cup.
The undergrowth grabs Cedric and he falls to the ground.
Harry looks back.
Cedric is pinned down with no means of escape.
Harry zaps the plantlife and Cedric wriggles free.
Harry helps him up.
The wind starts blowing again.
Harry and Cedric have ported to a graveyard.
Harry lets out a shout and holds his head, he is in pain.
We see Wormtail and Voldemort nearby.
Wormtail casts a spell and kills Cedric.
Cedric lays dead on the ground.
Wormtail pulls Harry closer, a status grabs hold of Harry and traps him.
Wormtail drops something into a cauldron, Harry watches on.
A bone hovers in the air under Wormtail's control, he drops it into the cauldron.
He takes a knife and slashes his arm over the cauldron.
He takes the knife to Harry and cuts at his arm.
Harry shouts.
Wormtail takes the knife over to the cauldron and lets the drops fall into it.
The cauldron bursts into flame and a reformed Voldemort emerges.
Wormtail hands him the wand and bows deeply.
Wormtail looks concerned, but does it anyway.
Voldemort sticks the wand into Wormtail's arm.
The sky changes, others have been summoned.
Voldemort begins slashing angrily at the hooded figures.
Voldemort grants Wormtail a new hand.
Harry struggles to get free.
Voldemort puts his hand on Harry's head and he screams.
Voldemort forces Harry to bow with magic.
Voldemort casts at Harry and he wriggles in pain.
Voldemort pulls Harry to his feet, Harry begins to move away.
Harry takes steps toward Voldemort.
They both cast and their streams of magic meet.
They both struggle.
Shapes form in the surrounding magical energy.
The connection breaks, Harry runs over to Cedric's body and summons the cup over to them.
In an instant the port out.
Voldemort looks angry.
Back at the arena Harry appears with Cedric's body.
Harry weeps on Cedric's body.
Amos breaks down wailing.
The crowd look on distraught.
Mad-Eye Moody enters and closes the door behind him.
Harry is in the room still sobbing.
They sit.
Harry nods.
We see Harry's arm, it has a skull and snake marking.
Mad-Eye starts shaking and struggling for air, he reaches for his bottle but it's empty.
He rushes to a chest with other bottles and struggles to find one.
A flash of magic occurs and Mad-Eye is knocked into the wall.
Dumbledore and Severus come rushing in.
Dumbledore takes Mad-Eye by the neck.
Severus administers some veritaserum.
Mad-Eye wriggles demonically.
We see a nod.
Dumbledore approaches the chest.
The chest opens, it contains a series of smaller chests.
When the final chest is open we see that there's a pit within holding a man the real Alastor Moody.
Dumbledore holds up one of Mad-Eye's Bottles.
Dumbledore looks into the pit.
Alastor Moody groans.
He appears to be transforming.
He rips off his fake eyepiece which falls on the floor, we see that he's transformed into Barty Crouch Junior.
Barty Jr rolls up his sleeve to reveal a skull and snake marking.
Harry is sitting on a bed, Dumbledore walks in.
Harry nods.
There's a large crowd gathered, the pupils are going home.
Viktor Krum gives Hermione a kiss and hands her some paper.
Ron is sitting alone.
The french sisters approach him, they both in turn give him a kiss on the head.
The Beauxbatons girls leave in uniform, the crowd applauds.
The Durmstrang boys leave too, shaking hands as they go.
They look over the balcony, the flying horses pulling a carriage head off into the distance.
The Bulgarians' ship goes underwater.
The tent BLOOMS SOFTLY with light -- briefly illuminating a bedside PHOTOGRAPH (of James & Lily Potter) -- then goes dark.
The blankets bloom once again when, down the hall, a TOILET FLUSHES.
Instantly, the SHADOW stiffens, the blankets DIM, and the tent flattens.
Just as the bedroom door OPENS, revealing UNCLE VERNON.
He peers inside, eyes flashing suspiciously, then withdraws.
The tent rises.
As the blankets blaze, we CUT INSIDE, find a SKINNY BOY with a crow's nest of black hair, thick glasses sitting crookedly atop his nose: HARRY POTTER.
Open before him is Violeta Stitch's Extreme Incantations.
Once again, he speaks.
A BLINDING BLAST OF LIGHT FLASHES from the second story window of Number Four.
The light in the hallway SNAPS on, Harry's tent droops once more and, seconds later, Harry's door eases open.
Uncle Vernon peers in and switches on the light.
Slowly, he closes the door.
Uncle Vernon eyes the PARCHMENT in Harry's hand suspiciously.
Just then Dudley -- sitting comatose before the TV -- emits a HOLLOW, BRAIN-DEAD CHUCKLE.
Marge flashes a thick FAN of POUND NOTES.
Dudley blinks, waddles forward, and extends his plump palm obediently.
Harry looks on, then sees Ripper snuffling about his ankle.
As Harry clears the dishes, Uncle Vernon brings out a bottle of brandy.
Hearing this, Harry frowns, glances at Uncle Vernon, who glares darkly at him.
Aunt Marge pauses on her wine, eyes narrowing on Harry.
POP! The GLASS in Aunt Marge's hand EXPLODES.
Harry stares at the shattered glass in surprise.
Aunt Marge starts to reply, when -- ZING! -- a BUTTON on her dress sails into the air.
THREAD SNAPS.
Aunt Marge's eyes WIDEN.
Her cheeks BILLOW.
Her whole body BILLOWS.
And she begins to INFLATE like a MONSTROUS BALLOON.
to his horror uncle Vernon himself begins to RISE.
Aunt Marge looks fearfully into his eyes.
He lets go.
Falls to his knees.
And watches Aunt Marge float away.
Harry crashes inside, takes his TRUNK, then puts his heel to a LOOSE FLOORBOARD and removes his WAND from its hiding place.
Turning, he grabs the PHOTOGRAPH of his parents.
BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Harry tows the TRUNK down the stairs.
finds Uncle Vernon waiting for him.
Uncle Vernon eyes Harry's wand nervously, then grins with knowing cruelty.
As Harry storms out with his trunk, we DOLLY TO the street WITH him.
High in the sky, a plump DOT rises.
Harry walks and walks and walks, then stops.
Glances about.
An empty PLAYGROUND.
SWINGS CREAKING gently on rusted chains.
A tiny CAROUSEL, kissed gently by the wind, turning slowly.
Harry drops the trunk.
Sits.
Harry, still as a statue.
In the trees above, LEAVES TREMBLE.
Harry turns, studies the swaying swings, the carousel.
Turns back.
Sensing something in the shadows across the street, he rises.
Slowly draws his wand.
Then he sees it.
Something BIG.
Darker than the shadows which conceal it.
Something with WIDE, GLEAMING.
Harry steps back.
Afraid to look.
Wand outstretched.
he TRIPS, tumbles over the forgotten trunk.
The tip of his wand BLAZES.
BANG! TWIN BEAMS of BLINDING LIGHT spear the night.
Stan eyes Harry suspiciously, nods slowly.
As Stan grabs Harry's trunk, Harry peers into the shadows across the street -- now simply shadows -- and climbs aboard.
Only BEDS.
In one bed, a DISHEVELED WIZARD GRUNTS, turns over in his sleep.
BANG! Ernie rockets away and the beds -- as one -- slide six inches to the rear.
Harry drops onto the bed nearest, peers up at the CHANDELIER SWAYING directly above his head.
Beyond the windscreen ONCOMING TRAFFIC WHIPS past in a blur.
Stan, huddled in an armchair, peeks over The Daily Prophet, eyes Harry coolly, before disappearing once more.
Stan grins with sinister delight, showing BAD TEETH.
As the Shrunken Head CACKLES with delight, Harry peers out the windscreen, watches London careering by.
Sure enough, directly ahead, a LITTLE OLD LADY is crossing the street.
Ernie HITS the BRAKES HARD and Harry flies forward, palms to the window.
The brakes pinch down, the bus stops inches from the old lady, and Harry flies back onto his bed.
BANG! The bus rockets forward once more.
As Harry rights himself, he notices the HEADLINE of Stan's Daily Prophet: ESCAPE FROM AZKABAN! Below, a sunken-faced MAN with long, matted hair glowers from a MOVING PHOTOGRAPH.
Harry shakes his head, still staring at the man's face.
Harry nods and, as he does, Black's eyes shift.
Just then, a pair of DOUBLE-DECKER BUSES sweep directly toward the Knight Bus.
Before can scream, the entire Knight Bus SQUEEZES DOWN and shoots the gap between the two onrushing buses.
The Shrunken Head winces.
As the Knight Bus rockets off, Tom and Harry are revealed, Harry glances up, reads the SIGN above: THE LEAKY CAULDRON.
Tom drags Harry's trunk inside, then pauses and, with a FLICK of his wand, silences the car alarm.
Harry trails Tom through the quiet room.
The BARTENDER glances up, his gaze lingering perhaps a bit too long.
A solitary WIZARD reads a book while, at his elbow, his COFFEE CUP STIRS ITSELF.
Tom leads Harry upstairs.
As Harry follows Tom inside, he finds a SNOW WHITE OWL (HEDWIG) perched atop a chair.
Harry turns, finds a PINSTRIPED SILHOUETTE (CORNELIUS FUDGE) at the window, staring at the ghostly shadows beyond.
Harry's reflection shivers in the glass, but the man doesn't turn.
Tom takes a position against the wall, fishes a pair of WALNUTS from his pocket and -- CRACK -- crushes the shells between his palms.
Then Fudge turns.
Harry glances warily from the steaming TUREEN of GREEN to Tom, who works a grimy thumb into his gum, frees a walnut sliver.
Fudge smiles nervously.
Harry eyes the STACK of BOOKS.
One is bound by a ROPE.
THROUGH the window: the rooftops of London.
A TRAIN PASSES and CAMERA PULLS BACK, REVEALS Harry, standing with Hedwig.
He turns, eyes his schoolbooks.
He studies the GROWLING TOME -- The Monster Book of Monsters -- then gives the rope a tug.
Instantly the book LEAPS to the floor, pages flying, bookcovers SNAPPING.
Harry gives chase, then the book turns, begins NIPPING viciously at his shoes.
Harry vaults atop the bed, watches the book disappear underneath, then grabs a pillow.
Seconds later, the book scuttles into view and Harry POUNCES -- FLUMPH! The BOOK ROARS angrily, muffled beneath the pillow.
A YOUNG WITCH in maid's robes pushes a cart down the hall.
Harry exits his room as the witch KNOCKS on a door.
As she opens the door, she's greeted by a THUNDEROUS ROAR and a RUSH of WIND.
Something SMALL and FAST dashes by Harry's feet.
Looking, he spies a rather ragged-looking RAT (SCABBERS), pursued by a decidedly UGLY ORANGE CAT (CROOKSHANKS).
As Harry moves down the stairs, VOICES come from below.
As Harry reaches bottom, he finds RON WEASLEY protectively cradling Scabbers, while HERMIONE GRANDER does her best to restrain a HISSING Crookshanks.
Then, sensing another presence in the room, both turn.
In the accompanying PHOTO, the entire WEASLEY FAMILY stands before the GREAT PYRAMIDS, waving.
Smack in the middle is Ron, Scabbers perched on his shoulder.
Mrs. Weasley takes Harry's face in her hands, smiles.
Harry's eyes drift to the fugitive poster.
Mr. Weasley hesitates, unable to continue.
Mr. Weasley hesitates yet again.
She points.
Just then, the COMPARTMENT RATTLES.
Lanterns flicker.
The train LURCHES, begins to SLOW.
Harry rises, slides open the door, peers into the corridor.
HARRY'S POV -- All along the carriage, HEADS look out curiously.
Then -- the train JERKS -- the car SWAYS -- and the LAMPS running along the ceiling FLICKER and die.
A thin WISP of STEAM escapes Ron's mouth.
Ron, a dark silhouette against the window, wipes a patch of condensation from the window.
Suddenly the CAR SWAYS violently.
from the stick in the hands of R.J. Lupin comes out a SHIVERING LIGHT,
his face looks tired and gray, but his eyes are alert, Wary.
Hermione's troubled face hovers above him.
Sits up.
Ron -- pale, nervous -- extends his hand.
Harry's glasses.
As he leaves, Harry turns to Ron and Hermione.
She shakes her head.
Harry looks to the window and we PUSH IN ON his REFLECTION.
It becomes a GLIMMERING PUDDLE and OMMITED.
SPLASH! a CARRIAGE WHEEL shatters the glassy surface as we TILT UP, catch a procession of HORSELESS CARRIAGES, carrying students toward the glimmering castle.
Gradually, the sweet sound of a CHOIR rises on the air, a FLASH of LIGHTNING bleaches the night sky and we cut to Great Hall.
the CAMERA as it GLIDES TOWARD the windows of the Great Hall, TOWARD the CANDLELIT SILHOUETTES glimmering within, PASSING THROUGH the glass.
At the High Table, Lupin sits with SEVERUS SNAPE, MINERVA McGONAGALL, RUBEUS HAGRID and ALBUS DUMBLEDORE.
We TRACK ALONG the FACES of the choir, singing to the strains of a HARPSICHORD, and LAND ON a QUINTET OF TOADS (one of which -- TREVOR -- belongs to NEVILLE LONGBOTTOM, who looks on with pride).
As the choir's song concludes, DUMBLEDORE rises, beaming over the sea of black hats.
Amid SCATTERED APPLAUSE, Harry, Ron, Hermione CLAP.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stare at each other -- stunned -- then APPLAUD vigorously.
Hagrid turns ruby red, rises, and nearly topples the staff table, sending water goblets weaving.
At the Slytherin table, DRACO MALFOY, flanked by the ever- present CRABBE and GOYLE, catches Harry's eye, feigns a dead faint.
Students exit the Great Hall, scale the Marble Staircase.
Harry, Ron and Hermione arrive at the seventh floor landing and approach the FAT LADY in the portrait.
Ron spins.
Frowns at Hermione.
Professor Trelawney takes the cup, peers inside, and grasps.
All turn, see Lavender bent over her textbook.
Harry peers into his cup.
The tea leaves shift.
The trio emerge from the BRIDGE and make their way toward Hagrid's hut.
STUDENTS gather around Hagrid as Harry, Ron and Hermione arrive.
Draco, Crabbe, and Goyle stand with the Slytherins.
There seems no consensus on this, but the students stare in wary wonder nonetheless.
As Hagrid coaxes the beast to the center of the paddock, Ron stares uneasily.
The entire class STEPS BACK, leaving Harry in front.
Unsure, Harry nods anyway.
Steps forward.
And bows.
Buckbeak's head cocks, eagle eyes studying Harry cannily.
Harry starts to step back, when.
Buckbeak ducks his beak.
Hagrid sighs, relieved.
Tentatively, Harry reaches out, lays his hand on Buckbeak's fierce beak.
The class CLAPS.
Harry smiles.
Hagrid lifts Harry high, drops him onto Buckbeak's back, and before Harry's settled, SLAPS Buckbeak's hindquarters.
In a flash, Buckbeak's steely talons SLASH DOWN.
Malfoy freezes.
Looks down at the BLOOD BLOSSOMING on his robes.
SHRIEKS.
Instantly, Harry dashes forward.
Buckbeak WHIPS AROUND, raises its talons and -- seeing Harry -- lowers them.
Ducks its beak.
breathes.
Harry, Ron and Hermione watch from the Gryffindor table.
They turn.
Seamus and the other Gryffindors are huddled over a copy of The Daily Prophet.
Hermione reads over the shoulders of others.
As a flicker of fear passes through Harry's face, BEM, a Nigerian boy, stares grimly at the grainy image of Black.
Beautiful flowers gleam in the dawn light, then, slowly begin to WITHER.
The dew FREEZES, the grass grows brittle.
Seconds later, the Dementors sweep by.
A tall WARDROBE RATTLES VIOLENTLY as Harry, Ron and several classmates regard it warily.
Ron JUMPS, glances at Hermione, then WHISPERS to Harry.
Neville eyes the rattling wardrobe, steps forward queasily.
Everyone LAUGHS good-naturedly.
Lupin nods thoughtfully.
Lupin leans close to Neville, WHISPERS.
Neville's eyes POP OPEN in shock.
Consider Lupin uncertainly.
Neville nods nervously, takes a deep breath.
SPARKS jet from Lupin's wand, strike the doorknob, and the wardrobe BURSTS OPEN.
Instantly, Snape appears, eyes flashing hideously as he stalks forward.
Neville backs away in fright.
turns, sees Harry step forward expectantly.
Concern flickers through Lupin's face.
The Jack-In-The-Box pivots on its spring, its face tumbling toward Harry, becoming more sinister, transforming into a Dementor.
Harry starts to raise his wand, then freezes, transfixed.
The Dementor looms closer and closer, when.
Lupin steps between, snaps his wand.
Lupin studies him curiously.
Harry looks up.
Finds Lupin studying him.
Lupin's eyes glaze in memory, then he blinks, smiles.
Lupin turns, eyes Harry affectionately.
Harry smiles vaguely.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione exchange dark glances, when.
Ginny emerges from the crowd, her face ashen.
The students dash to the landing, where all THE PAINTINGS WHISPER FEARFULLY.
Filch's rheumy eyes peer up, searching the upper shadows, then narrow.
Filch extends a crooked finger.
High up, near the ceiling, the Fat Lady cowers in a portrait not her own, trembling.
As the students REACT, Dumbledore's VOICE cuts through.
CLOCK TOWER DOOR: Great GROANING TUMBLERS fall.
SPINDLES rotate.
CYLINDERS -- one after another -- fire into place.
WINDOWS: Iron SPIKES, sharp as razors, rise instantly.
One by one, deep in the distance, the LIGHTS of the Great Hall go out.
Dementors appear, COVERING FRAME, then separate like a curtain.
CAMERA DRIFTS THROUGH the silent room, OVER an ocean of SLEEPING BAGS, FINDS Harry lying awake, staring at the net of stars glimmering beyond the highest window.
A gentle CREAK is heard and Harry's eyes shift, see Snape pass through the great doors, converge with Dumbledore.
Dumbledore gazes at the students, refusing to take the bait.
As Snape's eyes glitter darkly, Dumbledore gazes out over the slumbering students.
As Dumbledore's gaze finds Harry, he shuts his eyes, feigns sleep.
As the students eye Snape with guarded curiosity, Malfoy finishes SCRAWLING something on a bit of PARCHMENT and balls it up in his hands.
As he opens them, a MOTH flutters from his palms.
Snape waves the MOTH away, blows out a candle and a SLIDE SHOW BEGINS.
An ANCIENT WOODCUT of a HORRIFIC BEAST flickers at the front of the room.
Ron frowns down at his book.
As the class stares mutely at a SLIDE of an ATTACKING WEREWOLF, Hermione waiting desperately for someone to respond to Snape's question, the moth flutters by Harry.
A tiny cloud of moth dust mushrooms into the air and Harry lifts his palm.
Malfoy's PARCHMENT has reappeared.
Harry stares at the parchment.
Malfoy has drawn a crude caricature of Harry in his Quidditch robes being STRUCK BY LIGHTNING over and over.
Harry opens his eyes and Ron, Fred, George, and Hermione SLOWLY COME INTO FOCUS, standing at the foot of his bed in the hospital wing.
As Harry edges up against his pillow, we see a NURSE in the b.g., removing the SPOKES of an umbrella from a Hufflepuff player's neck.
Uncomfortable glances.
He tips a BAG of SPLINTERED WOOD and TWISTED TWIGS onto the bed.
As Harry stares, we hear a gentle WIND, then.
Harry shakes his head in response to Lupin's question, then -- WHOOSH! -- sets Hedwig free of her traces.
As she soars into the sky, Harry and Lupin watch from the lake's edge.
The great doors open and Fred and George enter.
The INVISIBILITY CLOAK drops and Harry is revealed, looking cross.
Instantly, Fred slaps a WORN ROLL OF PARCHMENT into his hand.
Harry unfurls it.
It's blank.
George touches his wand to the parchment and INTRICATE INK LINES surface in the fiber of the paper, spread like veins.
Harry reads the CURIOUS WORDS at the top.
trapdoor lifts.
Harry's eyes appear.
As he pulls himself up, a DOOR BANGS OPEN.
Quickly, Harry hides, watches a MAN'S BOOTS descend the stairs.
Malfoy's eyes shift, regard Hermione with disgust.
SPLAT! Malfoy takes a SNOWBALL to the grill.
Splutters.
Malfoy glances about in confusion, when -- SPLAT! SPLAT! -- he takes two more.
Hermione and Ron glance about uneasily.
Crabbe and Goyle start for Ron and Hermione, when -- FLUMPH! -- their knees go out and they fall headfirst into the snow.
Draco begins to back away fearfully, eying the mist.
Malfoy's SKI MASK is pulled over his eyes, he's spun about, given a ROUGH KICK to the ass and sent stumbling over the rise and out of sight.
Ron and Hermione stand frozen, exchange a nervous glance, and.
DASH OFF.
when -- FLUMPH! -- they both go flying, land on their pants in the snow.
As they sit up, they hear LAUGHTER.
Hermione's eyes narrow in suspicion.
The Invisibility Cloak drops.
Harry grinning.
But he's smiling.
The trio trudge through the SWIRLING SNOW.
Harry's donned Hermione's scarf and Ron's hat to disguise himself.
Fudge looks around nervously, then jerks his head toward the pub.
As he leads Rosmerta and McGonagall inside, we cut back to Hermione and Ron.
FOOTPRINTS track through the snow, into the pub.
Ron and Hermione ripple briefly past a frosted window, then.
THREE SHRUNKEN HEADS swing INTO VIEW.
Rosmerta looks to McGonagall.
She nods grimly.
BLAM! The pub doors fly open, REVEAL Main Street, where Ron and Hermione wait, rubbing their hands against the chill.
As they look down, CAMERA TILTS.
and FOOTPRINTS appear in the snow.
HARRY'S POV ENDS.
At the end of a ROCKY OUTCROP, the FOOTPRINTS end and SOBS are heard.
Ron takes Hermione's arm, discouraging her from going further, but she does, filling the footprints with her own, then kneeling and -- very gently -- drawing the cloak from Harry.
He stares into the mist, eyes stinging with tears.
Butterflies flutter over the great green lawn.
The GIANT SQUID breaks through the last GLAZE of ICE on the Black Lake.
The Whomping Willow shakes the water from its branches.
The DYING SUN streams through high windows, painting Harry's face a fierce AMBER-RED as he stands opposite Lupin.
ANCIENT CHARTS drape the walls while gleaming SPHERES OF SPUN GLASS ORBIT one another silently.
Lupin paces before a LARGE TRUNK.
Harry shakes his head.
As Harry's eyes wander, Lupin SNAPS his fingers, brings his attention back.
Then nods.
CRACK! -- the Dementor mutates into a SILVERY WHITE ORB.
Harry glances toward the window, at the bloody sun.
Harry looks up into Lupin's eyes.
Emotional, nods.
Harry takes a breath.
Lupin blinks at Harry's quiet fierceness.
Opens the packing case.
Instantly, the Dementor appears again.
The hair skates off Harry's scar.
He sets his jaw.
Harry's hand TREMBLES.
His whole BODY TREMBLES.
But he holds his ground, when -- WHOOSH! -- a huge SILVER SHADOW BURSTS from the end of his wand, hovering between him and the Dementor.
The Dementor falters.
Lupin nods.
All the boys asleep.
All except Harry, who lies in bed, studying the photo of his parents, barely visible in the fluttering light of a guttering candle.
CAMERA BEGINS TO MOVE.
CREEPING FORWARD.
But it's only an OLD MAN in a PAINTING, scowling in the glare of Harry's wand light.
Harry makes to follow, then stops.
The WAND'S SPOT dances across the parchment, finds another DOT.
Harry stashes the map, extinguishes his wand, and turns.
into the harsh glare of Snape's wand.
A sneer curdles the corners of Snape's lips.
Snape eyes Harry coldly.
Lowers his wand.
Seeing the map, Snape's eyes glitter.
To Harry's horror, words begin to appear.
Snape studies him, a sadistic half-smile on his lips.
Snape turns.
Sees Lupin standing in the shadows.
Lupin takes the parchment, which now displays a rather unflattering caricature of Snape and a pair of potions.
Harry walks aside a fuming Lupin, who grips the map fiercely.
Harry walks silently.
Harry lingers briefly in the doorway, absently eyes the WAXING MOON that glimmers beyond the window, then starts to turn away.
Stops.
Lupin hesitates ever-so-slightly, then returns to his papers.
As Trelawney eyes Harry's crystal, Hermione rolls her eyes.
Stung, Hermione starts to reply, but -- remarkably -- seems incapable of a single word.
Rising gracelessly, she exits, knocking her crystal ball to the floor.
Harry watches curiously as the ball rolls slowly OUT the doorway.
Ron stops, glances at Harry, then moves off.
Harry watches him go, along with the others, then spies Hermione's crystal ball lying on the landing.
Harry sets Hermione's crystal back on its stand, starts to go, when.
the SMOKE within the crystal suddenly DARKENS.
Leaning close, Harry watches the shape that appears.
It is unmistakable: Sirius Black.
Just then, a SHADOW crawls the glossy surface of the crystal and.
a HAND SNATCHES Harry's shoulder.
He wheels, finds.
Harry stiffens.
When it rises, she blinks, eyes the hand that lies upon Harry's shoulder.
Her hand.
Harry shakes his head.
Harry -- clearly unsettled by his encounter with Trelawney -- hastens down the stairs, and we fade out.
SWOOK! SWOOK! We FADE UP ON a MOVING POV OF a CROW as it glides to the flock circling the feet of a POT-BELLIED MAN (THE EXECUTIONER) sitting in the courtyard.
As he sharpens his AXE -- SWOOK! SWOOK! -- we -- cut to HARRY, RON AND HERMIONE.
hurrying past.
The Executioner looks up and we.
Harry, leading Ron and Hermione toward Hagrid's hut.
She and Ron look and SEE.
Malfoy, along with Crabbe and Goyle, lurks within a grouping of monolithic menhirs, BINOCULARS in hand, spying on Hagrid, who stands in the pumpkin patch, tossing dead ferrets to Buckbeak.
Malfoy stumbles back against a tree, cross-eyed with fear as Hermione jabs the tip of her wand under his nose, when.
She turns, surprised Ron's spoken to her.
Hermione nods, then -- SMACK! -- quick as lightning, lands a looping right to Malfoy's jaw, putting him flat on his back.
Stunned, he leaps to his feet and runs, Crabbe and Goyle huffing and puffing behind.
The trio makes their way down the slope and past Buckbeak, chewing on a ferret with idle satisfaction.
Hagrid stands by the window watching Buckbeak.
Harry and Ron sit.
The trio slip silently into a stand of trees.
Beyond them, Hagrid's hut glimmers desolately in the dying sun.
High in the CLOCK TOWER, a BELL begins to TOLL.
The trio stops, fighting their tears.
A QUARTET OF BLEAK SHADOWS files from the hut.
One of the SHADOWS -- Dumbledore -- raises his hand and points, directing the attention of the others away from Buckbeak.
Dumbledore speaks briefly -- unintelligible from this distance, then -- CAW! CAW! -- The crows SHRIEK excitedly and the Executioner separates from the others, disappears behind a LOW STAND OF TREES.
Sunlight kicks off the axe as it rises over the trees.
The ax hangs seemingly forever, etched against the sky, then drops from sight.
A SICKENING CHOP! fouls the breeze and Ron and Harry stare toward the trees in numb disbelief.
Hermione, face turned away, trembles.
Slowly, Hermione's hand falls onto Ron's shoulder and CAMERA FALLS WITH her, CONTINUING DOWN the length of Ron's arm to his hand, where a DROP OF BLOOD hangs from his finger, drops like a tear.
Ron stares at his hand.
At the blood running down his finger.
His eyes shift.
See Scabbers streaking away.
As Ron pelts after Scabbers, Harry and Hermione give chase.
Ron reaches the summit, disappears over the top.
Hermione and Harry follow.
Harry and Hermione reach the top of the ridge.
Stop.
Ron nabs Scabbers, cradles him in his bloody palm.
Ron spins.
Looks toward Harry.
Harry's eyes shift.
Bounding toward him in the gathering gloom is an ENORMOUS, PALE-EYED, JET-BLACK DOG.
Harry shields himself when the dog LEAPS CLEAR OVER HIM.
Harry raises his chin.
The dog vanishes into the GAP at the base of the tree, begins to pull Ron through.
Harry and Hermione make their way through the primitive passageway, ducking the roots that dangle overhead.
Then, abruptly, the tunnel ends.
Confused, Harry and Hermione glance about, then -- as one -- peer up.
A small opening.
Harry reaches up, hoists himself through.
Harry pulls Hermione up.
Looks about.
Stains -- suspiciously similar to dried blood -- blot the floorboards.
Shattered furniture lies strewn everywhere.
The CEILING CREAKS.
They dash to the stairs.
They come out, look down.
A wide, shiny stripe cuts through the DUST-LADEN floor -- as if something has been dragged -- to the end of the hallway, where a LIGHT seeps from a door.
Harry looks down, follows the PAW PRINTS on the floor to a pair of FILTHY HUMAN FEET.
Harry looks up slowly at the MAN standing in the shadows.
Filthy, matted hair hangs to his shoulders.
His skin like a corpse.
He studies Harry's face keenly.
Harry draws his wand.
Harry eyes Black, wand hand shaking violently.
The two regard each other, the moment taut with tension, then Lupin steps forward and EMBRACES Black like a brother.
Harry and Ron stare, dumbfounded, at Lupin.
Black HOWLS then, bitterly amused.
Lupin eyes him then turns back.
Lupin eyes Black, then nods.
The wands fly from their hands.
The others turn, find Snape standing in the doorway, smiling smugly.
As Black approaches, Snape puts his wand to Black's neck.
Snape's eyes harden.
He gestures to the door.
As the others start to go, Harry glances at the table where Lupin has left Harry's wand.
In a flash, it's in his hand.
Snape soars into the air, hits the wall with a THUD, and slides down.
Ron and Hermione stare in shock.
Harry looks a bit shocked himself, then turns to Black.
As Harry points at Black, Black laughs mirthlessly.
Black points at Ron.
Ron goes white with fear.
Scabbers SQUIRMS VIOLENTLY.
Lupin and Black turn to Ron.
He holds Scabbers protectively.
Sirius and Lupin exchange a glance.
Neither speaks.
Pettigrew's small, watery eyes dart toward the windows and door.
Suddenly, he makes a break for it, but Sirius merely shoves him back.
Pettigrew's nose twitches, his gaze finding Harry.
His hands flutter nervously, reveal a MISSING INDEX FINGER.
As Pettigrew emerges from the gap, he prattles desperately.
Harry studies Pettigrew briefly, looks away.
He turns, see Hermione staring at the FULL MOON.
His eyes shift.
Lupin is a rigid silhouette, his fingers twitching.
Lupin, twitching, SHAKES HIS HEAD.
Pettigrew's eyes dart, taking in the situation, then slowly shift, note the WAND trembling in LUPIN'S LENGTHENING FIST.
As Lupin's WAND DROPS Pettigrew LEAPS.
Harry looks into his glassy eyes.
Harry's Patronus blooms briefly and dies.
Harry's eyes flutter, the DEMENTORS twisting madly in his vision, drawing closer.
Black GASPS.
SILVERY FEATHERS of LIGHT tumble from his lips, as if his very soul were leaving him.
Then a LIGHT splinters the trees.
Harry squints, sees a FIERY STAG appear.
its body luminous.
slashing through the trees.
sowing light in the darkness.
Still, the stag charges on.
The LIGHT EXPANDS.
The forest blazing with it.
The remaining Dementors flee, drifting across the moon like ash.
The light ebbs.
The stag's luminous body flickers.
There is a BRIGHT FLASH and darkness returns, a single THREAD of LIGHT all that remains, spinning down to the size of a PEARL.
in the palm of MAN, standing deep in the trees.
Harry studies the strangely familiar SILHOUETTE, then it is gone.
out of HERMIONE'S SHADOW, which ripples against the curtain that encircles Harry's bed.
Ron lies opposite, his leg BANDAGED.
Hermione paces.
Stops.
Dumbledore hands Harry and Hermione each a stick of CHOCOLATE, then starts to go.
stops.
He smiles, exits.
Harry glances curiously at the chocolate.
But Hermione doesn't reply, instead looping the pendant's long chain around Harry's neck as well as her own.
As Ron and Harry exchange a curious glance, the BELL continues to CHIME -- DING! DING! -- and.
At this point, the TIME REVERSAL ends and the room is Empty.
Except for Harry and Hermione.
As Hermione unloops the necklace, Harry glances around in confusion.
Hermione ignores the question, eyes the CLOCK on the wall.
Hermione grabs Harry's arm, slams through the door.
Harry and Hermione come to a mad, huffing halt.
She holds up a hand, silencing him.
Annoyed, Harry follows her gaze and BLINKS in DISBELIEF.
he sees himself, along with Hermione and Ron, about to confront Malfoy, Crabbe, and Goyle near the monoliths.
Dumbfounded, Harry turns.
Hermione holds up the HOURGLASS.
A soft SMACK is HEARD.
They turn, see Malfoy land on the seat of his pants in the Sundial Garden, rub his kisser.
Hermione pulls Harry under the bridge.
Seconds later, FOOTSTEPS CLAMOR over their heads.
Seconds later, Harry emerges, marvels at the sight of himself and Hermione, and Ron heading down the slope to Hagrid's hut.
His eyes shift to the pumpkin patch.
Harry nods, then looks toward the hut.
Inside, Hagrid is handing Scabbers to Ron.
As he starts to rise, Hermione grabs him, speaks fiercely.
Hermione turns, watches Fudge and the others drawing closer.
She frowns, glances into the hut.
Just then on the ground beside her Hermione notices a JAGGED STAR-SHAPED STONE.
Instantly, she grabs it, rises, and hurls it through the OPEN WINDOW.
SMASH! The sound of a GLASS JAR SHATTERING is heard within the hut.
Hermione ignores him, swiftly whistling a second stone through the window and -- CONK! -- off the back of Harry's head.
Crows begin to drop atop the roof.
Fudge's party arrives, RAPS on the door.
Harry and Hermione watch themselves start up the slope.
The coast clear, they slip out of the trees.
As Harry vaults into the patch, the CROWS STIR, CAWING at his ankles, pecking at his feet.
Buckbeak refuses to move.
Harry and Hermione shoo Buckbeak along, disappear into the forest.
just as Dumbledore concludes his reverie.
Harry and Hermione -- their view unobstructed by the LOW STAND OF TREES this time -- watch the Executioner approach the pumpkin patch.
Quickly, the confusion in his masked eyes turns to anger.
The Executioner lifts his blade and -- with a brutal fury -- plunges it into the flesh of a PUMPKIN with a SICKENING CHOP.
The CROWS SCATTER to the skies.
Harry and Hermione race through the trees as Buckbeak lopes easily behind.
SUBJECTIVE POV, GLIDING THROUGH a thicket of trees, TO the forest's edge, the trees thinning, REVEALING.
the Whomping Willow THRASHING.
Hermione disappears down the hole, then a FIGURE approaches the tree, Lupin.
As the Whomping Willow begins to thrash, its violence oddly muted at this distance, Lupin takes a stick, pokes a knot on the trunk.
Instantly, the Willow calms.
We look UPWARD, see the tops of the trees etched against the darkening sky.
BATS fly TOWARD us.
We FOLLOW one, when Buckbeak snags one.
A tail twitches briefly between his beak, then -- SLURP! -- is gone.
Harry and Hermione sit together in the lengthening shadows.
Hermione looks at Harry.
Hermione nods, not wanting to press Harry further, then glances beyond the trees, toward the Whomping Willow.
SHADOWS emerge under a FULL MOON: Black.
Harry, Pettigrew, Lupin, Hermione, Ron, Sleepwalking Snape.
Harry studies himself and Sirius.
Hermione glances toward the Willow.
Harry looks back to the tall grass.
The werewolf is frozen.
OWWWWWWWW! This time, Harry doesn't stop her.
Just then, a CHILL WIND rises.
The LEAVES of the trees TREMBLE.
EERIE SHADOWS flutter over the moon, greasy as smoke.
Dementors.
Hermione eyes Harry warily.
He is transfixed, staring hungrily toward the outcrop.
The Lake begins to freeze.
WHOOSH! WHOOSH! One after another, Dementors drop from the sky, vanish in the cyclone.
She looks.
Desperately, her eyes flash to the cyclone, to the pitiful sight of Harry and Black at the water's edge.
dying.
Harry's face changes.
He draws his wand.
Harry slashes through the trees, down to the rocky outcrop, to the exact spot where his father appeared.
Poising his wand, he looks out over the sea of Dementors on the other side of the lake.
A WISP of SILVER escapes his wand, hovering like a MIST, then BLOOMS MAGNIFICENTLY.
The trees EXPLODE WITH LIGHT.
The Lake BLAZES with reflected FIRE.
Harry stands utterly still, wand extended to the heavens.
Across the lake, the Dementors retreat.
Harry waits, still as a statue, until each and every one is gone.
Then he simply lets his arm drop.
WHOOSH! Harry and Hermione plunge INTO FRAME astride Buckbeak, SOARING toward the castle.
Hermione contemplates this.
Sirius paces within a SMALL CELL, a man condemned.
Stunned to see them.
KA-BOOM! The CELL DOOR ROCKETS to the sky.
Black claps his shoulder, looks him in the eye.
With a twinkle in his eye, Dumbledore swings open the door.
As Harry and Hermione enter.
they catch the faintest glimpse of themselves across the room just as they EVAPORATE.
Ron blinks.
Turns.
Frowns.
Ron glances to the other side of the room.
Hermione glances mischievously to Harry.
Harry JUMPS.
Lupin turns, smiles through haggard eyes.
The Marauder's Map lies open on an otherwise bare desk.
Harry nods, looks back to Lupin.
Unable to disguise his shock at Lupin's appearance.
Harry eyes the open desk drawers.
the bare bookshelves.
Harry watches the Map go blank.
Looks back.
Lupin is gone.
Ron stands amid a circle of excited Gryffindors.
As Harry arrives, he glances at Hermione, who CLEARS HER THROAT LOUDLY.
The others turn, begin all speaking at once.
Mystified, Harry steps forward, the boys peeling away, clearing his view of the BROOMSTICK in Ron's hands.
